To-morrow I will sew them and peg them.
So he cut out the leather and left it on his bench.
The next morning he went into his shop to make the shoes.
What did he see!
A pair of shoes, all nicely made and ready to be sold.
Yes, there were two pairs of shoes already made.
Those he also cut out and left upon his bench.
And so it went on and on.
They went skipping and dancing up to the bench.
Sitting cross-legged they took up the leather and began to work.
How their needles flew back and forth, back and forth!
The tiny elves ran about, skipping and dancing, skipping and dancing.
Then, whisk!
They were almost naked.
Their little feet were bare.
The shoemaker and his wife again hid behind the curtain.
They went skipping and dancing, skipping and dancing, to their work.
They clapped their hands for joy.
There was once an old goat who had seven little kids.
Dear children, I am going into the woods.
Now do not open the door while I am away.
So the old goat went on her way into the dark woods.
Open the door, my dear children.
I have something here for each of you.
Our mother's voice is soft and gentle.
Your voice is rough.
You are a wolf.
I am your mother.
But the oldest little goat thought of what his mother had said.
We shall not open the door.
Our mother's feet, are white and yours are black.
Go away; you are the wolf.
Miller, put some flour on my foot, for I have hurt it.
So the wolf put his one white foot on the window sill.
Soon he was fast asleep.
Not long after this the old goat came home from the woods.
Ah, what did she see!
The house door was wide open; the tables and chairs were upset.
The washtub was broken in pieces, and the bed was tipped over.
Where are my dear children?
The old goat helped the little goat out.
Soon she learned how the wolf had eaten her dear children.
As the old goat cut, more and more heads popped out.
At last all six of the kids jumped out upon the grass.
They went hopping and skipping about their mother.
They put these stones inside the wicked old wolf.
He knew all the fairies and where they lived.
Even the fairy queen was a friend of his.
Once, while he was traveling, night overtook him in a deep forest.
Why are you sad?
I will give her a son no larger than her husband's thumb.
Soon after this the good farmer's wife had a son.
He was, indeed, just the size of his father's thumb.
People came from far and wide to see the tiny boy.
The queen kissed the little boy and named him Tom Thumb.
Each of the other fairies made Tom a gift.
One day his mother was mixing a pudding.
He slipped, and in he went, head first.
The pudding moved and tossed about.
His mother was afraid.
She did not know what to think.
She went to the window to throw the pudding out.
Just then a poor beggar was passing by the house.
The beggar thanked her and put it into his basket.
Take me out!
His mother washed him and put him to bed.
She began to chew and chew.
Tom began to jump about and shout.
One day Tom was in the field helping his father.
How could you hold the reins?
But when Tom's mother came out, she could see no one.
She began to be afraid.
Where are you, Tom?
Here I am in the horse's ear.
Tom's father made him a whip out of a straw.
There a great bird saw him and thought he was a mouse.
When the cook cut open the fish, out jumped Tom Thumb.
Tom was brought before the king, and his story was told.
The king grew very fond of Tom and his wise sayings.
He took Tom with him wherever he went.
A mouse was trained for Tom to ride.
Tom drew his sword and tried to drive the cat away.
Tom was put to bed, but he did not die.
No indeed!
Once upon a time there lived a maiden named Cinderella.
She had two older sisters, but they were cross to little Cinderella.
Sometimes, to keep warm, she crept in among the cinders.
That is why she was called Cinderella.
One day the sisters came dancing into the house.
But how am I to go in these clothes?
Oh, what a change!
The rags tumbled to the floor.
And, what do you think!
The ugly shoes fell off.
And, lo!
You must not stay after the clock strikes twelve.
Cinderella said she would not forget.
The king's son was charmed with Cinderella.
Cinderella had such a good time that she forgot about the clock.
It began to strike twelve--one, two, three.
Cinderella ran from the room.
Down the steps of the palace she flew.
The clock finished striking.
The horses and men turned into mice.
Poor Cinderella had to walk home in her ragged clothes.
I will marry her and no other.
Many tried, but none could do it.
At last he came to the house where Cinderella lived.
While the prince was waiting, Cinderella came into the room.
You could never put it on.
At once the little glass slipper was fitted to the tiny foot.
Soon they were married and lived happily ever after.
Tell me, little raindrops, Is that the way you play?
Pitter-patter, pitter-patter, All the rainy day?
Once upon a time a man had a donkey.
His donkey had worked for him many years.
The donkey, fearing he might be killed, ran away.
He liked music, so he thought he might join the band.
He had not gone far when he came upon an old dog.
Why are you panting, my friend?
My master wished to have me killed.
So I ran away.
I am going to play in the band at Bremen.
I think you and I can easily earn a living by music.
I can play the lute, and you can play the kettledrum.
The dog was quite willing, and so they be walked on.
He looked as sad as three days of rainy weather.
What's the matter with you, old Tom?
We are going to play in the band.
I know you love music, as you sing so well at night.
You too can join the band.
So the donkey, the dog, and the cat all walked on together.
After a time the three came to a farmyard.
Why are you making so much noise?
We are going to Bremen to join the band.
You have a fine voice.
You can join, too.
And they all went on their way to Bremen.
The donkey and the dog lay down under a large tree.
The cat climbed up on one of the branches.
I can see a light.
As they drew near, the light grew larger and brighter.
The donkey, who was the tallest, went up and looked in.
What do you see, old Long Ears?
What do I see?
At last they hit upon a plan.
The robbers had never heard such a noise.
The donkey lay down in the yard.
The dog lay behind the door.
They soon fell fast asleep.
The cock on the beam was waked by the!
Upon the roof sat the judge, who cried, 'What did he do?
What did he do?
When I heard this I ran off as fast as I could.
The robbers never went near the house again.
What does little birdie say, In her nest at peep of day?
Let me fly, says little birdie, Mother, let me fly away.
Birdie, rest a little longer, Till the little wings are stronger.
So she rests a little longer, Then she flies away.
What does little baby say, In her bed at peep of day?
Baby says, like little birdie, Let me rise and fly away.
Baby, sleep a little longer, Till the little limbs are stronger.
If she sleeps a little longer, Baby too shall fly away.
Near this spring lived a widow and her two daughters.
Now you must go and get it out.
The maiden went back to the spring to look for the spindle.
Indeed I will!
As she walked along, she came to a tree full of apples.
When she had picked up all the apples, she walked on.
At last she came to a small house.
Come in and live here with me.
Only take care to make my bed well.
The old woman spoke so kindly that she won the maiden's heart.
And here is your spindle that fell into the spring.
Cockadoodledoo!
Our golden lady has come home, too.
Then the maiden told how the gold had fallen upon her.
I do not want to soil my hands in your dirty oven.
Then she walked on until she came to the apple tree.
Shake me!
As she spoke, she walked lazily on.
At last the girl stood before the door of Mother Frost's house.
She would not get up in the morning.
The idle girl walked home, covered with pitch.
Our sticky lady has come home, too.
Did you notice how short his tail was?
I will tell you how the bear's tail came to be short.
The fox jumped upon the wagon while the men were not looking.
Then Mr.
Fox jumped from the wagon and began to eat the fish.
While he was eating the fish, Mr.
Bear came along.
Those are very fine fish.
How did you catch them?
I will bring my hook and line too.
I always catch fish with my tail.
At sunset the bear met the fox.
Now, Mr.
You must keep still for a long while.
That is the best way to catch fish.
Wait until a great many fish take hold of your tail.
Then pull with all your might.
The bear sat very still for a long time.
At last he began to feel cold and he moved a little.
Is it not time to pull out the fish?
Wait until more fish have taken hold of your tail.
You are very strong.
You can wait a little longer.
So the poor bear waited until it was almost morning.
Bears' tails have been short ever since.
The king stopped and spoke to the miller.
The next day he brought his daughter to the castle.
Now it happened that the king loved gold above all things.
There is your spinning wheel, and here is the straw.
Then the king left the room and locked the door behind him.
Good evening, my dear young lady.
Why are you crying?
The little man took the beads, and, sitting down, began to spin.
The next morning the king unlocked the door.
How his eyes sparkled at the sight of the gold!
These riches made the king even more greedy than before.
Sitting down, she began to cry.
Faster and faster it whirled.
In the morning the straw had all been turned into finest gold.
Then he sat down and began to spin.
Faster and faster he spun.
Soon the great roomful of straw was all turned into gold.
No, I do not care for riches; you must keep your promise.
The next day the little man came again.
They took down the name of every man, woman, and child.
Is your name Cowribs, or Sheepshanks, or Bandy legs?
They had been far and wide to find new names.
Around this fire danced a little man.
The queen clapped her hands for joy.
She knew that at last she had found the name.
Tell me my name.
Then your name is Rumpelstiltskin.
The fairies have told you!
Many years ago there lived a king named Midas.
King Midas had one little daughter, whose name was Marigold.
King Midas was very, very rich.
His one great wish seemed to be for more and more gold.
There is no king who has so much gold as you.
Are you sure?
But warn you that your gift will not make you happy.
The next morning King Midas awoke very early.
He was eager to see if the fairy's promise had come true.
The bed turned to gold.
He touched the chair and table.
Upon the instant they were turned to solid gold.
The king was wild with joy.
He ran around the room, touching everything he could see.
His magic gift turned all to shining, yellow gold.
The king soon felt hungry and went down to eat his breakfast.
Now a strange thing happened.
Not a drop of water could pass his lips.
The bread turned to gold under his fingers.
The meat was hard, and yellow, and shiny.
Not a thing could he get to eat.
All was gold, gold, gold.
His little daughter came running in from the garden.
Of all living creatures she was the dearest to him.
He touched her hair with his lips.
At once the little girl was changed to a golden statue.
Take all my lands.
Take all my gold.
Take everything, only give me back my little daughter.
In a moment the beautiful fairy was standing before him.
I hate the very sight of the yellow stuff.
Are you sure that you no longer wish the golden touch?
I no longer think gold the greatest thing in the world.
Then sprinkle those things which you have touched and turned to gold.
The king took the pitcher and rushed to the spring.
Running back, he first sprinkled the head of his dear little girl.
Then he and his little daughter sat down to breakfast.
How good the cold water tasted.
He wished all his people to be happy.
The bell of justice had hung in its place for many years.
At length the old rope became worn with use and age.
So the king had to send away for one.
What if some one should need help while the rope is down?
We must find something to take its place.
Near Atri, there lived a rich old soldier.
The old horse went limping along; he grew thinner and thinner.
Ding-dong!
The people came running from all sides.
Who is calling for justice?
There stood the old horse, chewing on the grapevine.
Whose horse is this?
Then the story of the old horse was told.
The judges sent for his cruel master.
His enemies were seeking him far and wide.
Hope and courage were gone.
Bruce had given up all as lost.
While he lay thinking, he noticed a spider spinning her web.
The king counted each time.
I have tried six battles and failed.
She has tried six times to reach the beam and failed.
She swung out bravely.
She has reached it.
The thread hangs between the two beams.
If the spider can do it, I can do it.
The brave soldiers answered his call and came trooping in.
Where are you going, you little pig?
I'm leaving my mother, I'm growing so big.
So big, young pig!
So young, so big!
I've got a new spade, and I'm going to dig.
To dig, little pig!
A little pig dig!
Well, I never saw a pig with a spade, that could dig!
I'm going to have a nice ride in a gig.
In a gig, little pig!
Well, I never yet saw a pig ride in a gig!
I'm going to the barber's to buy me a wig.
A wig, little pig!
A pig in a wig!
Why, whoever before saw a pig in a wig?
I'm going to the ball to dance a fine jig.
A jig, little pig!
A pig dance a jig!
Well, I never before saw a pig dance a jig!
Many years ago two boys lived on a farm in New England.
The farms were scattered, and around them were great forests.
The houses were made of logs, with strong, heavy doors.
Far away in the woods lived many Indians.
They even dared to attack, and often burned, the scattered log cabins.
John, the older brother, started first.
The Indians were angry and struck at John with their tomahawks.
But he was not afraid; he faced the Indians bravely.
But the two Indians did not dare attack the log cabin.
The Indians looked at John's skates, which still hung over his shoulder.
They did not know what skates were.
They thought they must be some of the white man's magic.
All through the long march John still carried his skates.
At length they came to the Indian village.
The Indian houses were long huts covered with strips of birch bark.
Four or five families lived in each of these houses.
Then they ordered John to run down between the two long lines.
They had their sticks all ready to beat him.
After this the boys were glad to have John play with them.
With their bows and arrows they shot at a mark.
In the spring the Indian women planted the yellow corn.
Then John threw the hoe far from him.
He had learned this from the Indian boys.
The old men were pleased.
They thought John would make a fine warrior.
John had lived with the Indians a year.
All this time John had kept his skates carefully hidden.
One day the ice froze clear and smooth.
John brought his skates down to the river bank.
They crowded around him on the ice.
John thought he would play a trick on them.
He strapped the skates upon the feet of an Indian boy.
How the Indians laughed!
They thought it was a great joke.
Each of them in turn tried on the skates.
How they sprawled and fell upon the ice!
What fun it was for the other Indians!
John strapped on the skates with great care.
He fell down and bumped his head.
He tripped over his toes and made great fun for the Indians.
All at once John jumped up.
Away he flew, skating for his life.
Down the river he went, swift as a bird.
The Indians rushed after him, but he had too great a start.
On and on he skated.
John soon found his father and mother.
How glad they were to see him!
Dick Whittington was a poor little boy who lived in the country.
His father and mother were both dead.
Now Dick was a bright boy.
He kept both ears open to hear what was said around him.
He had heard many times about the great city of London.
Men said that in this great city the people were rich.
Dick had even heard that the streets were paved with gold.
At last a man with a wagon came along.
He was a kind man, and he gave Dick a ride.
Where are you going?
You are very good to give me a ride.
It was dark when they reached London.
That night Dick slept in a barn with the horses.
The next morning he looked for the golden stones in the streets.
He looked and looked, but he could find only dust and dirt.
He wandered around the streets, seeking for work.
Run away, you lazy boy!
Just then the owner of the house, Mr.
Fitzwarren, came up.
You will find a bed in the attic.
Dick thanked Mr.
Fitzwarren again and again for his kindness.
His bed in the attic was only a pile of old rags.
One day Dick earned a penny by blacking a man's shoes.
Will you sell me that cat?
I will give you this penny for her.
Dick began to love his cat dearly.
Now Mr.
Fitzwarren had many ships which sailed to distant lands.
When a ship sailed Mr.
Fitzwarren let every one in his house send something on it.
One of the ships was ready to sail.
Every one in the house except Dick had sent something.
What is Dick going to send in the ship?
How lonely poor Dick was without Puss!
Turn back, Whittington, Lord Mayor of London.
So he ran back to the house of Mr.
Dick's cat was taken across the ocean.
Now the king and queen of this country were very rich.
The king and queen first gave the captain a great feast.
Gold and silver dishes filled with food were brought in.
Why do you let the rats do this?
I would give half my kingdom to be rid of them.
Then the captain thought of Dick Whittington's cat.
I do not care how much she may cost.
They found Dick in the kitchen blacking the stove.
Then the bags of gold and jewels were piled at Dick's feet.
Dear mother, how pretty The moon looks to-night!
Oh, what a bright cradle 'twould be!
You shall have your wish.
Within a year you shall have a little girl.
What the frog said came true.
Before the twelfth wise woman could speak, in walked the thirteenth.
At these words every one turned pale with fright.
They ordered all the spindles in the kingdom to be burned.
She saw a little door.
In the lock was a rusty key.
When she turned it, the door flew open.
Do tell me what that funny thing is that jumps about so.
And then she held out her hand to take the spindle.
It came about just as the fairy had foretold.
The princess pricked her finger with the spindle.
The meat stopped roasting before the fire.
After many, many years a prince came from a far-off kingdom.
He heard the story of the castle and its sleeping beauty.
He knew what danger lay in the great hedge of thorn bushes.
I am not afraid.
There, through the thorn bushes, lay a wide road.
Soon the prince came to the gates of the castle.
He found the horses and dogs lying asleep on the ground.
The doves sat on the roof with their heads under their wings.
He went into the castle.
Even the flies on the wall still slept.
Going up the winding stair he saw the little door.
There before him lay the sleeping princess.
The prince bent down and gave her a kiss.
As he did so the sleeping beauty opened her eyes.
With her the whole castle awoke.
The horses in the stable stood up and shook themselves.
The dogs jumped about and wagged their tails.
The flies on the wall began to buzz.
The fire in the kitchen began to burn.
The meat began to roast.
Long years ago many cities had great stone walls around them.
The city of Andernach had around it one of these great walls.
He watched them well.
No one could come in who was not friendly to the city.
The gates were not opened very often.
Some days they were not opened at all.
So the gatekeeper had much spare time.
I think I will buy a few hives of bees.
I can place the hives on the top of the wall.
There nobody will trouble them.
The people of Lintz were the enemies of the people of Andernach.
Many plans were talked over.
They like to lie late in their beds.
The only people who rose early in Andernach were the bakers.
They had to have fresh bread ready for breakfast.
I think we can find some honey.
The old gatekeeper is asleep; he will not hear us.
The two boys crept softly up the stairs.
They soon reached the top of the wall.
Did you hear that noise?
There stood the army of Lintz.
A ladder was placed against the wall.
The soldiers would soon mount over the gate into the city.
What was to be done?
There was no time to wake the people.
What could two boys do against an army?
In an instant Fritz thought of the beehives.
Ah, the bees were awake if the people were not!
Such buzzing, such stinging, such shouting as arose!
The boys ran down the stairs to the city hall.
The old bell ringer was aroused by the cries.
Soon the wild clang of the bell awoke the people of Andernach.
There was no need for soldiers.
The army of Lintz was running away.
They did not have a roof to cover their heads.
Look at them in the picture.
Smith had a friend who was a very wealthy man.
Can you see Tommy in the picture wearing his new clothes?
They kissed each other a hundred times.
That night Margery went to bed weeping for her dear little brother.
It was the first time they had ever been parted.
The next morning the shoemaker came in with Margery's new shoes.
She put them on in great glee and ran out to Mrs.
See goody two shoes!
Dear little Margery saw how good and wise Mr.
Smith was.
She thought it was because he read so many books.
Soon Margery wished, above all things, to learn to read.
Very soon she could read better than any of her playmates.
First, she made letters out of bits of wood with her knife.
She then made the little tots spell words with her wooden letters.
The little children learned to read very fast.
Can you see Margery with her basket of letters in this picture?
The first house she came to was Farmer Wilson's.
See, here it is.
Margery stopped and ran up to the door.
Tap, tap, tap.
Who is there?
Is that you, little Goody?
I am glad to see you.
Then out came the little boy.
Do you think you could have done as well as little Billy?
Why do you bark at little Two Shoes?
Come, Alice, here is Goody Two Shoes ready to teach you.
Then out came the little one.
As she formed them she gave their exact sounds.
The next place Margery came to was Gaffer Cook's house.
Here a number of poor children all came around her at once.
He that will thrive must rise by five.
Truth can be blamed, but cannot be shamed.
A friend in your need is a friend indeed.
A wise head makes a close mouth.
A lie stands upon one leg, but truth upon two.
A good boy will make a good man.
Honor your parents and the world will honor you.
Love your friends and your friends will love you.
This lamb she called Will, and a pretty fellow he was.
Do look at him.
See him run and play with the children.
Margery also had a present of a little dog.
His name was Jumper.
Look at him sitting up and begging in the picture.
Did you ever see a dog with such bright eyes?
He almost seems able to talk.
Jumper, Jumper, Jumper!
His place was just outside the door.
See how he sits, the saucy fellow!
One day Jumper came whining into the schoolroom.
He took hold of Margery's dress and pulled and pulled.
What do you wish, dear Jumper?
But the dog only whined and pulled her toward the door.
At last Margery went outdoors to see what was the matter.
Then Jumper left her and ran back into the schoolroom.
At length she too followed Jumper to the door.
They were none too soon.
Margery did not lose her school.
And what do you think!
He had become the captain of a great ship.
Do you think she deserved to be very happy?
She did not forget the children, you may be sure.
When he knew he was in the right, he feared nothing.
David's quiet life did not last long.
Find out how your brothers are, and bring word to me.
The camp of Israel was on the side of a high mountain.
David looked across the valley to the camp of the Philistines.
There he saw a huge soldier dressed in shining armor.
This giant soldier carried a great spear and shield.
Who is that man?
Do you not know?
Does no one of our soldiers dare to meet him?
Is not God on the side of our people?
I will fight with this man, even though he kill me.
You are only a boy, while he has fought in many battles.
He will help me fight this man.
So he threw it off.
Do you dare fight with me?
This day will he give you into my hand.
He whirled the sling swiftly about his head.
The stone flew straight to its mark.
It struck the Philistine full in the forehead.
In the following words a blend of two consonants follows the vowel.
In the following words a blend of two consonants precedes the vowel.
The vowel must be sounded with the preceding consonants.
This table combines the features of the two previous tables.
These combinations occur so frequently that much drill is required.
Two vowels together are often sounded separately.
The following list contains words with the most common suffixes.
The following list contains words with the most common prefixes.
