A cat and a rat.
A rat and a cat.
The cat has a rat.
The rat ran at Ann.
Ann has a cat.
The cat ran at the rat.
Ann and Nat.
Ann has a fan.
Nat has a hat.
Ann can fan Nat.
A man and a lad.
The man sat; the lad ran.
The man has a hat.
The lad has a cap.
The cat and the rat ran.
Ann sat, and Nat ran.
A rat ran at Nat.
Can Ann fan the lad?
The man and the lad.
The man has a cap.
The lad has a fan.
Has Ann a hat?
Ann has a hat and a fan.
Has the lad a dog?
The lad has a fat dog.
The dog has Nat's cap.
Nat and Rab ran.
Rab ran at a cat.
See the frog on a log.
Rab sees the frog.
Can the frog see Rab?
The frog can see the dog.
Rab ran at the frog.
See the lamp!
It is on a mat.
The mat is on the stand.
The lamp is Nat's, and the mat is Ann's.
See the nag!
It is Tom's nag.
Can Tom catch his nag?
He can not catch him.
The dog ran at the nag, and the nag ran.
Tom's nag is fat; his dog is not fat.
Nat is on Tom's nag.
Nat's dog, Rab, can not catch the rat.
See the frog on the log.
A lad sees the frog.
The lad can not catch it.
A cat is on the mat; the cat sees a rat.
Ann's fan is on the stand.
The man has a lamp.
A dog ran at the man.
Ann sat on a log.
This is a fat hen.
The hen has a nest in the box.
She has eggs in the nest.
A cat sees the nest, and can get the eggs.
Can this old fox catch the hen?
Run, Rab, and catch the fox.
Nell is by the pond.
I see ducks on the pond.
Nell sees the ducks, and will feed them.
This old man can not see.
He is blind.
Mary holds him by the hand.
She is kind to the old blind man.
I see ducks on the pond; Tom will feed them.
Tom is blind; he holds a box in his hand.
Nell is kind to him.
This old hen has a nest.
Mary will run and get the eggs.
Sue has a doll.
It has a new dress.
Sue is kind to Ann.
A bird is in the tree.
It has a nest there.
The nest has five eggs in it.
Do not rob the nest.
Will the bird let the cat get her five eggs?
This is a pet bird.
It lives in a new cage.
It will stand on Sue's hand, and sing.
Sue loves her pet bird.
So do I love it.
Do you see the boys at play?
Yes, I see them; there are five of them.
Tom is too fat to run fast.
Nat can catch him.
I like to see boys play.
Sue has a doll and a pet bird.
Her doll has a new dress and a cap.
Sue loves Mary, and will let her hold the doll.
The pet bird lives in a cage.
There are birds in the tree by the pond.
Can you see them?
Yes; there are five of them in a nest.
Tom will not rob a bird's nest.
He is too kind to do so.
What bird is this?
It is an owl.
What big eyes it has!
Yes, but it can not see well by day.
The owl can see best at night.
Nat Pond has a pet owl.
The day is hot.
The cows are in the shade of the big tree.
They feed on the new grass.
Our cows do not run off.
At night they come to the barn.
The sun will soon set.
The cows are on their way to the barn.
One old cow has a bell on her neck.
She sees our dog, but she will not run.
The ship has run on a rock.
Five men are on the ship.
If the boat can not get to them, they will drown.
The boat has brave men in it.
They will save the five men.
Come, boys, and feed the cows.
The sun has set, and they are at the barn.
Sue has a bell on the neck of her pet cat.
They like to rock their dolls, and sing to them.
They will save the men in the ship, if they can.
They will not let them drown.
What bird has big eyes?
The owl.
Can an owl see at night?
Yes, an owl can see best at night.
The boys are on the ice with their skates.
There is a stone on the ice.
One boy did not see it, and has had a fall.
But he is a brave boy, and will not cry.
They like to see the big wheel go round.
They have come to play on the logs and in the boat.
John and Sue will play here all day.
Their skates roll on the floor.
The girl with the new black dress is Jane Bell.
Look out for the cars!
How fast they come!
No horse can go as fast as the cars.
See the horse look at the cars.
Will he not run?
The boys are all out on the ice with their skates.
John has had a fall.
Ned and John are hard at work.
John has a saw, and Ned has an ax.
Two girls have gone out for a walk.
It is May, and the air is cool.
They see men at work and boys at play.
Bess has a cart and two goats.
She likes to ride in her cart.
See how the goats pull!
Bess is so big, I think she should walk up the hill.
This house is on fire.
Run, boys, and ring the bell.
Call some men to put out the fire.
Bess, do you hear a noise?
Yes, Tom; what is it?
It is the mill by our house; logs are cut there.
How do they cut the logs, Tom,--with an ax?
May we not go and see the mill at work, Tom?
Yes, I think so.
The air is cool, and we can walk in the shade.
It is not up hill, and the goats can pull us fast.
What kind of house is this?
Do you think it is a schoolhouse, or a church?
It looks like a church, but I think it is a schoolhouse.
I see the boys and girls with their books and slates.
When the bell rings, they will go in.
A good child likes to go to school.
Be quick, and tell me what kind of bird this is.
Do you not know, Henry?
Oh, no!
It is the first quail I have seen.
Is it good to eat?
Yes; but I should not like to kill it.
Is not this a dear baby in the crib?
Her name is Kate, and she has big, blue eyes.
You can not see her eyes, for they are shut.
Henry Black and Ned Bell live near our house.
So Henry walks fast, and is first at school.
Ned is not a good boy.
I saw him try to kill a quail with a stone.
If it were not for this, they would run on the rocks.
How would you like to live in a lighthouse?
Let us watch the sheep as they feed on the hills.
They like to eat the new grass.
Do you see my two lambs?
I had two more; but an old wolf took them one night.
I love my pet lambs.
The boys have made a big snow man.
Hear them laugh as they play!
It is good fun for the boys.
They would like to have it snow all day and all night.
What do you mean?
Please tell me once more.
We could look far out, and could see the ships at sea.
The man had a pipe in his mouth.
He sat with us, and let the sheep eat the grass.
What fun it is to see lambs play!
It made us laugh to see them.
One day John went to the pond to fish.
His dog, Watch, went with him.
As he got up to go, he fell off the log.
Watch sprang in to save him.
James has been to the mill.
A girl asks him to show her the way to the town.
He tells her the way, and then drives on.
It is the first of May.
See them at their play.
The girls have wreaths in their hands.
Now they will crown some one Queen of the May.
Who shall it be?
It should be the best girl, and that is Kate.
Do you see that tall tree?
Long ago it sprang up from a small nut.
Do you know who made it do so?
It was God, my child.
God made the world and all things in it.
Should we not then love him?
The dog.
The dog ran.
The cat.
The mat.
Is the cat on the mat?
The cat is on the mat.
The man.
A pen.
The man has a pen.
Is the pen in his hand?
It is in his hand.
A fat hen.
A big rat.
The fat hen is on the box.
The rat ran from the box.
Can the hen run?
See Rab!
See Ann!
Rab has the hat.
Can Ann catch Rab?
Ann can catch Rab.
She has the hat.
Now Ann can pat Rab.
Let me pat Rab, too.
Ned has fed the hen.
She is a black hen.
She has left the nest.
See the eggs in the nest!
Will the hen let Ned get them?
Let me get the black hat.
Come, Nat, see the big man with his black hat.
Ned is on the box.
He has a pen in his hand.
A big rat is in the box.
Can the dog catch the rat?
The fat hen has left the nest.
Run, Nat, and get the eggs.
Do you see Nell?
Yes; she has a pan with some eggs in it.
Let me have the pan and the eggs, will you, Nell?
Has the black hen left the nest?
I will now run to catch Rab.
Will you run, too?
O Ben!
Yes, if you will sit still.
Stand still, Jip, and let Ann get in.
Now, Ben, hand me the whip.
Get up, Jip!
Kitty has a nice pet.
It can sing a sweet song.
She has just fed it.
Then the cat can not catch it.
Look at Tom and his dog.
The dog has a black spot on his back.
Do you think he is a good dog?
Tom has a big top, too.
It is on the box with Kitty's doll.
The sun is up.
The man has fed the black hen and the fat duck.
Now the duck will swim in the pond.
The hen has run to her nest.
Let us not stop at the pond now, for it is hot.
See how still it is!
We will go to see Tom and his top.
O John!
It is not hot, now.
Let us run and jump.
I think it is fun to run, and skip, and jump.
See the duck on the pond!
Her nest is up on the bank, under the rock.
The sun has set, and the pond is still.
The dog with a black spot on his back, is with Tom.
Tom has his hat in his hand.
He has left his big top on the box.
Kitty's doll is on the rock.
Nell has put her pet in the cage.
It will sing a sweet song.
The duck has her nest under the rock.
It is not hot now.
Let us run, and skip, and jump on the bank.
Do you not think it is fun?
O Kate!
Will she not come out to get some grass?
No, John, she likes to be in the pond.
See how still she stands!
The dear old cow gives us sweet milk to drink.
Papa, will you let me ride with you on Prince?
I will sit still in your arms.
See, mamma!
We are both on Prince.
How large he is!
Get up, Prince!
You are not too fat to trot as far as the barn.
O Fanny, what a pretty ball!
Yes; can you catch it, Ann?
Toss it to me, and see.
I will not let it fall.
Did you call us, mamma?
I went with Tom to the pond.
I had my doll, and Tom had his flag.
The fat duck swam to the bank, and we fed her.
Did you think we might fall into the pond?
We did not go too near, did we, Tom?
May we go to the swing, now, mamma?
Here comes the band!
Shall we call mamma and Fanny to see it?
Let us stand still, and hear the men play as they pass.
I hope they will stop here and play for us.
What has he in his hand?
How fine he looks!
Look, too, at the man on that fine horse.
Jip is with them.
Robert will make him draw Bess and her doll in the cart.
Kate, will you play with me?
We will dig in the sand with this little spade.
That will be fine sport.
Get Mary to play with you.
James went to get Mary to play with him.
Then Kate made the doll's bed.
Did the doll hear Kate sing?
They are all in the shade, now, by the brook.
James and Mary are glad to see Kate.
What shall we do?
I do not like to sit still.
Shall we hunt for eggs in the barn?
I will get my doll, and give her a ride with us.
She will hang up a swing for us in the shade.
Peep, peep!
Where have you gone, little chick?
Are you lost?
Can't you get back to the hen?
Oh, here you are!
I will take you back.
Here, hen, take this little chick under your wing.
How safe the little chick feels now!
This is a fine day.
The sun shines bright.
There is a good wind, and my kite flies high.
I can just see it.
Why, here comes my dog!
He was under the cart.
Did you see him there?
What a good time we have had!
Kate, I wish we had a boat to put the dolls in.
Don't you?
I know what we can do.
What a funny boat, Kate!
A tub for a boat, and a pole for an oar!
Won't it upset?
We can try it, Nell, and see.
Here, Ponto!
Kate called to her dog.
Come, and get the dolls out of the pond.
Rose went under, but she did not drown.
Bess was still on the top of the water.
Ponto came with a bound, and jumped into the pond.
Ponto then found Rose, and brought her out, too.
Brave old dog!
What do you think of Ponto?
What a bright June day!
The air is pure.
The sky is as blue as it can be.
Lucy and her mamma are in the woods.
They have found a nice spot, where there is some grass.
They sit in the shade of the trees, and Lucy is singing.
The trees are not large, but they make a good shade.
Now the ball is lost.
Where can it be?
Ponto has found it.
Here he comes with it.
Papa, may we have the big flag?
What can my little boy do with such a big flag?
Hoist it on our tent, papa.
We are playing Fourth of July.
Is that what all this noise is about?
Why not hoist your own flags?
You might spoil my flag.
Then we will all join to pay for it.
But we will not spoil it, papa.
Take it, then, and take the coil of rope with it.
Hurrah for the flag, boys!
Frank has a pretty boat.
It is white, with a black line near the water.
He keeps it in the pond, near his home.
He always takes good care of it.
What is that?
Oh, it is a little boat!
What a pretty one it is!
Would you like to have it?
Yes, very much, thank you, John.
Has grandma seen it?
Not yet; we will take it to her by and by.
What have you in your pan, Lucy?
James has been to market with his mamma.
See my dear, old grandma in her easy-chair!
How gray her hair is!
She wears glasses when she reads.
I run as fast as I can to get it for her.
Would you not love a dear, good grandma, who is so kind?
And would you not do all yon could to please her?
Come here, Lucy, and listen!
What is in this flower?
O mother!
I wonder how it came to be shut up in the flower!
Then the flower shut it in.
Shall we let it out, Lucy?
Yes; then it can go to other flowers, and get honey.
Here come Frank and James White.
Do you know where they live?
They are out very early in the day.
How happy they are!
See how well Frank rides, and how tight James holds the lines!
The boys should be kind to their horses.
It is not best to whip them.
A little girl went in search of flowers for her mother.
It was early in the day, and the grass was wet.
Sweet little birds were singing all around her.
And what do you think she found besides flowers?
A nest with young birds in it.
The little girl now thought how dearly her own mother loved her.
So she left the birds.
Mamma, will you go to town?
What do you ask for a ticket on your train?
About what time will you get back?
At half past eight.
Is this the fast train?
Yes, this is the lightning train.
What shall we get for you in town, mamma?
A big basket, with two good little children in it.
All right!
Time is up!
Ding, ding!
It is noon, and the school is out.
Do you see the children at play?
What a big room for such a small school!
Mary is the teacher.
They all have books in their hands, and Fanny is reading.
Kate and Mary listen to Fanny as she reads from her book.
What do you think she is reading about?
I will tell you.
When Fanny has finished, the three girls will go home.
In a little while, too, the boys will give up their playing.
Lucy has a new pet.
Do you know what kind of bird it is?
Lucy calls her Polly.
Poor Poll!
But Polly and the cat are not good friends.
Well, children, did you have a nice time in the woods?
Oh yes, mother, such a good time!
See what sweet flowers we found, and what soft moss.
The best flowers are for grandma.
Won't they please her?
Rab was such a good dog, mother.
When we came back, they were all safe.
No one could get them while Rab was there.
We gave him some of the crackers from the basket.
O mother, how the birds did sing in the woods!
But I think she would want to come home to sleep.
If she were a bird, her nest would be her home.
But what would mother do, I wonder, without her little Fanny?
These boys and girls live near the sea.
They have been to the beach.
It is now evening, and they are going home.
John, who sits on the front seat, found some pretty shells.
They are in the basket by his side.
Ben White is driving.
He thinks they are very lazy; they do not trot fast.
The children are not far from home.
Have you ever been at the seaside?
Yes; may I go?
Yes, Frank, with me.
Oh, how glad I am!
Here they are, on the bank of a river.
Frank has just pulled a fine fish out of the water.
How proud he feels!
See what a nice, quiet spot they have found.
They like the sport.
I like winter, when snow and ice cover the ground.
See the boys and girls!
How merry they are!
Henry has his sled, and draws his little sister.
There they go!
Did you see that boy fall down?
But I see he is not hurt, for he is laughing.
Some other boys have just come to join in the sport.
See them put on their skates.
Ellen, do look at Fido!
He sits up in a chair, with my hat on.
He looks like a little boy; but it is only Fido.
Now see him shake hands.
Give me your paw, Fido.
How do you do, sir?
Will you take dinner with us.
Isn't Fido a good dog, Ellen?
He is always so polite.
O Hattie!
Did he catch it, Frank?
No; Nero did not; but the old cat did.
My cat?
No, it was the other one.
Do tell me how she got it, Frank.
Did she run after it?
No, that was not the way.
Puss was hid on a big box.
The rat stole out, and she jumped at it and caught it.
Poor rat!
Why, Hattie, you are not sorry puss got the rat, are you?
Mary and Lucy have come down to the beach with their grandpa.
They live in a town near the sea.
Sometimes he sits there all day long.
They have been picking up shells for their little sister.
She is too young to come to the beach.
Willie's father bought them, and carried them home.
Here you see the rabbits and their little master.
He gives them bread and grass to eat.
They like grass, and will take it from his hand.
He has called in a little friend to see them.
Willie is telling him about their funny ways.
Come here, Rose.
Look down into this bush.
O Willie!
What cunning, little eggs!
May we take it, and show it to mother?
Oh, we would bring it right back, Willie!
Yes; but we could not fasten it in its place again.
If the wind should blow it over, the eggs would get broken.
How does the bird make the nest so strong, Willie?
Do you see what it is made of?
Yes, Willie, I see some horse-hairs and some dry grass.
Shall we take the nest, Rose?
Oh no, Willie!
Where did it go, Rose?
I don't know; away off, somewhere.
I can guess where, Rose.
Don't you know the nest we saw some days ago?
What do you think is in it now?
O Willie, I know!
Some little brown birds.
Let us go and see them.
All right; but we must not go too near.
I just saw the old bird fly out of the bush.
Stand here, Rose.
Can you see?
Why, Willie, what ugly little things!
What big mouths they have, and no feathers!
Keep still, Rose.
Here comes the old bird with a worm in her bill.
How hard she must work to feed them all!
Frank was a poor, little, lame boy.
His father and mother were dead.
How do you do, Frank?
Don't make a noise; my doll is going to sleep.
It is just a little sick to-day.
Well, then, let us whistle it to sleep.
Oh, how sweet!
Do let me try.
Mary blew and blew a long time.
Try again, Mary.
She tried once more, and the whistle made a low, sweet sound.
It whistles!
Dear, little thing; it must be put in its bed now.
So they went into the house.
Frank's basket was soon filled, and he went home happy.
There was once a big, white hen that had twelve little chickens.
She thought the air from the water would do them good.
For the first time, she found that they would not obey her.
Jump upon this stone, as I did.
We can then jump to the other side.
Come now!
Just flap your wings, as I did, and you can jump over.
You don't try at all.
We can't jump so far, mother.
Indeed we can't, we can't!
She soon found, near the back door, a piece of bread.
No, no!
This bread is for Chippy.
Have you taken good care of your book?
Children should always keep their books neat and clean.
Are you not glad to be ready for a new book?
Your parents are very kind to send you to school.
Be kind to all, and do not waste your time in school.
To-morrow I will sew them and peg them.
So he cut out the leather and left it on his bench.
The next morning he went into his shop to make the shoes.
What did he see!
A pair of shoes, all nicely made and ready to be sold.
Yes, there were two pairs of shoes already made.
Those he also cut out and left upon his bench.
And so it went on and on.
They went skipping and dancing up to the bench.
Sitting cross-legged they took up the leather and began to work.
How their needles flew back and forth, back and forth!
The tiny elves ran about, skipping and dancing, skipping and dancing.
Then, whisk!
They were almost naked.
Their little feet were bare.
The shoemaker and his wife again hid behind the curtain.
They went skipping and dancing, skipping and dancing, to their work.
They clapped their hands for joy.
There was once an old goat who had seven little kids.
Dear children, I am going into the woods.
Now do not open the door while I am away.
So the old goat went on her way into the dark woods.
Open the door, my dear children.
I have something here for each of you.
Our mother's voice is soft and gentle.
Your voice is rough.
You are a wolf.
I am your mother.
But the oldest little goat thought of what his mother had said.
We shall not open the door.
Our mother's feet, are white and yours are black.
Go away; you are the wolf.
Miller, put some flour on my foot, for I have hurt it.
So the wolf put his one white foot on the window sill.
Soon he was fast asleep.
Not long after this the old goat came home from the woods.
Ah, what did she see!
The house door was wide open; the tables and chairs were upset.
The washtub was broken in pieces, and the bed was tipped over.
Where are my dear children?
The old goat helped the little goat out.
Soon she learned how the wolf had eaten her dear children.
As the old goat cut, more and more heads popped out.
At last all six of the kids jumped out upon the grass.
They went hopping and skipping about their mother.
They put these stones inside the wicked old wolf.
He knew all the fairies and where they lived.
Even the fairy queen was a friend of his.
Once, while he was traveling, night overtook him in a deep forest.
Why are you sad?
I will give her a son no larger than her husband's thumb.
Soon after this the good farmer's wife had a son.
He was, indeed, just the size of his father's thumb.
People came from far and wide to see the tiny boy.
The queen kissed the little boy and named him Tom Thumb.
Each of the other fairies made Tom a gift.
One day his mother was mixing a pudding.
He slipped, and in he went, head first.
The pudding moved and tossed about.
His mother was afraid.
She did not know what to think.
She went to the window to throw the pudding out.
Just then a poor beggar was passing by the house.
The beggar thanked her and put it into his basket.
Take me out!
His mother washed him and put him to bed.
She began to chew and chew.
Tom began to jump about and shout.
One day Tom was in the field helping his father.
How could you hold the reins?
But when Tom's mother came out, she could see no one.
She began to be afraid.
Where are you, Tom?
Here I am in the horse's ear.
Tom's father made him a whip out of a straw.
There a great bird saw him and thought he was a mouse.
When the cook cut open the fish, out jumped Tom Thumb.
Tom was brought before the king, and his story was told.
The king grew very fond of Tom and his wise sayings.
He took Tom with him wherever he went.
A mouse was trained for Tom to ride.
Tom drew his sword and tried to drive the cat away.
Tom was put to bed, but he did not die.
No indeed!
Once upon a time there lived a maiden named Cinderella.
She had two older sisters, but they were cross to little Cinderella.
Sometimes, to keep warm, she crept in among the cinders.
That is why she was called Cinderella.
One day the sisters came dancing into the house.
But how am I to go in these clothes?
Oh, what a change!
The rags tumbled to the floor.
And, what do you think!
The ugly shoes fell off.
And, lo!
You must not stay after the clock strikes twelve.
Cinderella said she would not forget.
The king's son was charmed with Cinderella.
Cinderella had such a good time that she forgot about the clock.
It began to strike twelve--one, two, three.
Cinderella ran from the room.
Down the steps of the palace she flew.
The clock finished striking.
The horses and men turned into mice.
Poor Cinderella had to walk home in her ragged clothes.
I will marry her and no other.
Many tried, but none could do it.
At last he came to the house where Cinderella lived.
While the prince was waiting, Cinderella came into the room.
You could never put it on.
At once the little glass slipper was fitted to the tiny foot.
Soon they were married and lived happily ever after.
Tell me, little raindrops, Is that the way you play?
Pitter-patter, pitter-patter, All the rainy day?
Once upon a time a man had a donkey.
His donkey had worked for him many years.
The donkey, fearing he might be killed, ran away.
He liked music, so he thought he might join the band.
He had not gone far when he came upon an old dog.
Why are you panting, my friend?
My master wished to have me killed.
So I ran away.
I am going to play in the band at Bremen.
I think you and I can easily earn a living by music.
I can play the lute, and you can play the kettledrum.
The dog was quite willing, and so they be walked on.
He looked as sad as three days of rainy weather.
What's the matter with you, old Tom?
We are going to play in the band.
I know you love music, as you sing so well at night.
You too can join the band.
So the donkey, the dog, and the cat all walked on together.
After a time the three came to a farmyard.
Why are you making so much noise?
We are going to Bremen to join the band.
You have a fine voice.
You can join, too.
And they all went on their way to Bremen.
The donkey and the dog lay down under a large tree.
The cat climbed up on one of the branches.
I can see a light.
As they drew near, the light grew larger and brighter.
The donkey, who was the tallest, went up and looked in.
What do you see, old Long Ears?
What do I see?
At last they hit upon a plan.
The robbers had never heard such a noise.
The donkey lay down in the yard.
The dog lay behind the door.
They soon fell fast asleep.
The cock on the beam was waked by the!
Upon the roof sat the judge, who cried, 'What did he do?
What did he do?
When I heard this I ran off as fast as I could.
The robbers never went near the house again.
What does little birdie say, In her nest at peep of day?
Let me fly, says little birdie, Mother, let me fly away.
Birdie, rest a little longer, Till the little wings are stronger.
So she rests a little longer, Then she flies away.
What does little baby say, In her bed at peep of day?
Baby says, like little birdie, Let me rise and fly away.
Baby, sleep a little longer, Till the little limbs are stronger.
If she sleeps a little longer, Baby too shall fly away.
Near this spring lived a widow and her two daughters.
Now you must go and get it out.
The maiden went back to the spring to look for the spindle.
Indeed I will!
As she walked along, she came to a tree full of apples.
When she had picked up all the apples, she walked on.
At last she came to a small house.
Come in and live here with me.
Only take care to make my bed well.
The old woman spoke so kindly that she won the maiden's heart.
And here is your spindle that fell into the spring.
Cockadoodledoo!
Our golden lady has come home, too.
Then the maiden told how the gold had fallen upon her.
I do not want to soil my hands in your dirty oven.
Then she walked on until she came to the apple tree.
Shake me!
As she spoke, she walked lazily on.
At last the girl stood before the door of Mother Frost's house.
She would not get up in the morning.
The idle girl walked home, covered with pitch.
Our sticky lady has come home, too.
Did you notice how short his tail was?
I will tell you how the bear's tail came to be short.
The fox jumped upon the wagon while the men were not looking.
Then Mr.
Fox jumped from the wagon and began to eat the fish.
While he was eating the fish, Mr.
Bear came along.
Those are very fine fish.
How did you catch them?
I will bring my hook and line too.
I always catch fish with my tail.
At sunset the bear met the fox.
Now, Mr.
You must keep still for a long while.
That is the best way to catch fish.
Wait until a great many fish take hold of your tail.
Then pull with all your might.
The bear sat very still for a long time.
At last he began to feel cold and he moved a little.
Is it not time to pull out the fish?
Wait until more fish have taken hold of your tail.
You are very strong.
You can wait a little longer.
So the poor bear waited until it was almost morning.
Bears' tails have been short ever since.
The king stopped and spoke to the miller.
The next day he brought his daughter to the castle.
Now it happened that the king loved gold above all things.
There is your spinning wheel, and here is the straw.
Then the king left the room and locked the door behind him.
Good evening, my dear young lady.
Why are you crying?
The little man took the beads, and, sitting down, began to spin.
The next morning the king unlocked the door.
How his eyes sparkled at the sight of the gold!
These riches made the king even more greedy than before.
Sitting down, she began to cry.
Faster and faster it whirled.
In the morning the straw had all been turned into finest gold.
Then he sat down and began to spin.
Faster and faster he spun.
Soon the great roomful of straw was all turned into gold.
No, I do not care for riches; you must keep your promise.
The next day the little man came again.
They took down the name of every man, woman, and child.
Is your name Cowribs, or Sheepshanks, or Bandy legs?
They had been far and wide to find new names.
Around this fire danced a little man.
The queen clapped her hands for joy.
She knew that at last she had found the name.
Tell me my name.
Then your name is Rumpelstiltskin.
The fairies have told you!
Many years ago there lived a king named Midas.
King Midas had one little daughter, whose name was Marigold.
King Midas was very, very rich.
His one great wish seemed to be for more and more gold.
There is no king who has so much gold as you.
Are you sure?
But warn you that your gift will not make you happy.
The next morning King Midas awoke very early.
He was eager to see if the fairy's promise had come true.
The bed turned to gold.
He touched the chair and table.
Upon the instant they were turned to solid gold.
The king was wild with joy.
He ran around the room, touching everything he could see.
His magic gift turned all to shining, yellow gold.
The king soon felt hungry and went down to eat his breakfast.
Now a strange thing happened.
Not a drop of water could pass his lips.
The bread turned to gold under his fingers.
The meat was hard, and yellow, and shiny.
Not a thing could he get to eat.
All was gold, gold, gold.
His little daughter came running in from the garden.
Of all living creatures she was the dearest to him.
He touched her hair with his lips.
At once the little girl was changed to a golden statue.
Take all my lands.
Take all my gold.
Take everything, only give me back my little daughter.
In a moment the beautiful fairy was standing before him.
I hate the very sight of the yellow stuff.
Are you sure that you no longer wish the golden touch?
I no longer think gold the greatest thing in the world.
Then sprinkle those things which you have touched and turned to gold.
The king took the pitcher and rushed to the spring.
Running back, he first sprinkled the head of his dear little girl.
Then he and his little daughter sat down to breakfast.
How good the cold water tasted.
He wished all his people to be happy.
The bell of justice had hung in its place for many years.
At length the old rope became worn with use and age.
So the king had to send away for one.
What if some one should need help while the rope is down?
We must find something to take its place.
Near Atri, there lived a rich old soldier.
The old horse went limping along; he grew thinner and thinner.
Ding-dong!
The people came running from all sides.
Who is calling for justice?
There stood the old horse, chewing on the grapevine.
Whose horse is this?
Then the story of the old horse was told.
The judges sent for his cruel master.
His enemies were seeking him far and wide.
Hope and courage were gone.
Bruce had given up all as lost.
While he lay thinking, he noticed a spider spinning her web.
The king counted each time.
I have tried six battles and failed.
She has tried six times to reach the beam and failed.
She swung out bravely.
She has reached it.
The thread hangs between the two beams.
If the spider can do it, I can do it.
The brave soldiers answered his call and came trooping in.
Where are you going, you little pig?
I'm leaving my mother, I'm growing so big.
So big, young pig!
So young, so big!
I've got a new spade, and I'm going to dig.
To dig, little pig!
A little pig dig!
Well, I never saw a pig with a spade, that could dig!
I'm going to have a nice ride in a gig.
In a gig, little pig!
Well, I never yet saw a pig ride in a gig!
I'm going to the barber's to buy me a wig.
A wig, little pig!
A pig in a wig!
Why, whoever before saw a pig in a wig?
I'm going to the ball to dance a fine jig.
A jig, little pig!
A pig dance a jig!
Well, I never before saw a pig dance a jig!
Many years ago two boys lived on a farm in New England.
The farms were scattered, and around them were great forests.
The houses were made of logs, with strong, heavy doors.
Far away in the woods lived many Indians.
They even dared to attack, and often burned, the scattered log cabins.
John, the older brother, started first.
The Indians were angry and struck at John with their tomahawks.
But he was not afraid; he faced the Indians bravely.
But the two Indians did not dare attack the log cabin.
The Indians looked at John's skates, which still hung over his shoulder.
They did not know what skates were.
They thought they must be some of the white man's magic.
All through the long march John still carried his skates.
At length they came to the Indian village.
The Indian houses were long huts covered with strips of birch bark.
Four or five families lived in each of these houses.
Then they ordered John to run down between the two long lines.
They had their sticks all ready to beat him.
After this the boys were glad to have John play with them.
With their bows and arrows they shot at a mark.
In the spring the Indian women planted the yellow corn.
Then John threw the hoe far from him.
He had learned this from the Indian boys.
The old men were pleased.
They thought John would make a fine warrior.
John had lived with the Indians a year.
All this time John had kept his skates carefully hidden.
One day the ice froze clear and smooth.
John brought his skates down to the river bank.
They crowded around him on the ice.
John thought he would play a trick on them.
He strapped the skates upon the feet of an Indian boy.
How the Indians laughed!
They thought it was a great joke.
Each of them in turn tried on the skates.
How they sprawled and fell upon the ice!
What fun it was for the other Indians!
John strapped on the skates with great care.
He fell down and bumped his head.
He tripped over his toes and made great fun for the Indians.
All at once John jumped up.
Away he flew, skating for his life.
Down the river he went, swift as a bird.
The Indians rushed after him, but he had too great a start.
On and on he skated.
John soon found his father and mother.
How glad they were to see him!
Dick Whittington was a poor little boy who lived in the country.
His father and mother were both dead.
Now Dick was a bright boy.
He kept both ears open to hear what was said around him.
He had heard many times about the great city of London.
Men said that in this great city the people were rich.
Dick had even heard that the streets were paved with gold.
At last a man with a wagon came along.
He was a kind man, and he gave Dick a ride.
Where are you going?
You are very good to give me a ride.
It was dark when they reached London.
That night Dick slept in a barn with the horses.
The next morning he looked for the golden stones in the streets.
He looked and looked, but he could find only dust and dirt.
He wandered around the streets, seeking for work.
Run away, you lazy boy!
Just then the owner of the house, Mr.
Fitzwarren, came up.
You will find a bed in the attic.
Dick thanked Mr.
Fitzwarren again and again for his kindness.
His bed in the attic was only a pile of old rags.
One day Dick earned a penny by blacking a man's shoes.
Will you sell me that cat?
I will give you this penny for her.
Dick began to love his cat dearly.
Now Mr.
Fitzwarren had many ships which sailed to distant lands.
When a ship sailed Mr.
Fitzwarren let every one in his house send something on it.
One of the ships was ready to sail.
Every one in the house except Dick had sent something.
What is Dick going to send in the ship?
How lonely poor Dick was without Puss!
Turn back, Whittington, Lord Mayor of London.
So he ran back to the house of Mr.
Dick's cat was taken across the ocean.
Now the king and queen of this country were very rich.
The king and queen first gave the captain a great feast.
Gold and silver dishes filled with food were brought in.
Why do you let the rats do this?
I would give half my kingdom to be rid of them.
Then the captain thought of Dick Whittington's cat.
I do not care how much she may cost.
They found Dick in the kitchen blacking the stove.
Then the bags of gold and jewels were piled at Dick's feet.
Dear mother, how pretty The moon looks to-night!
Oh, what a bright cradle 'twould be!
You shall have your wish.
Within a year you shall have a little girl.
What the frog said came true.
Before the twelfth wise woman could speak, in walked the thirteenth.
At these words every one turned pale with fright.
They ordered all the spindles in the kingdom to be burned.
She saw a little door.
In the lock was a rusty key.
When she turned it, the door flew open.
Do tell me what that funny thing is that jumps about so.
And then she held out her hand to take the spindle.
It came about just as the fairy had foretold.
The princess pricked her finger with the spindle.
The meat stopped roasting before the fire.
After many, many years a prince came from a far-off kingdom.
He heard the story of the castle and its sleeping beauty.
He knew what danger lay in the great hedge of thorn bushes.
I am not afraid.
There, through the thorn bushes, lay a wide road.
Soon the prince came to the gates of the castle.
He found the horses and dogs lying asleep on the ground.
The doves sat on the roof with their heads under their wings.
He went into the castle.
Even the flies on the wall still slept.
Going up the winding stair he saw the little door.
There before him lay the sleeping princess.
The prince bent down and gave her a kiss.
As he did so the sleeping beauty opened her eyes.
With her the whole castle awoke.
The horses in the stable stood up and shook themselves.
The dogs jumped about and wagged their tails.
The flies on the wall began to buzz.
The fire in the kitchen began to burn.
The meat began to roast.
Long years ago many cities had great stone walls around them.
The city of Andernach had around it one of these great walls.
He watched them well.
No one could come in who was not friendly to the city.
The gates were not opened very often.
Some days they were not opened at all.
So the gatekeeper had much spare time.
I think I will buy a few hives of bees.
I can place the hives on the top of the wall.
There nobody will trouble them.
The people of Lintz were the enemies of the people of Andernach.
Many plans were talked over.
They like to lie late in their beds.
The only people who rose early in Andernach were the bakers.
They had to have fresh bread ready for breakfast.
I think we can find some honey.
The old gatekeeper is asleep; he will not hear us.
The two boys crept softly up the stairs.
They soon reached the top of the wall.
Did you hear that noise?
There stood the army of Lintz.
A ladder was placed against the wall.
The soldiers would soon mount over the gate into the city.
What was to be done?
There was no time to wake the people.
What could two boys do against an army?
In an instant Fritz thought of the beehives.
Ah, the bees were awake if the people were not!
Such buzzing, such stinging, such shouting as arose!
The boys ran down the stairs to the city hall.
The old bell ringer was aroused by the cries.
Soon the wild clang of the bell awoke the people of Andernach.
There was no need for soldiers.
The army of Lintz was running away.
They did not have a roof to cover their heads.
Look at them in the picture.
Smith had a friend who was a very wealthy man.
Can you see Tommy in the picture wearing his new clothes?
They kissed each other a hundred times.
That night Margery went to bed weeping for her dear little brother.
It was the first time they had ever been parted.
The next morning the shoemaker came in with Margery's new shoes.
She put them on in great glee and ran out to Mrs.
See goody two shoes!
Dear little Margery saw how good and wise Mr.
Smith was.
She thought it was because he read so many books.
Soon Margery wished, above all things, to learn to read.
Very soon she could read better than any of her playmates.
First, she made letters out of bits of wood with her knife.
She then made the little tots spell words with her wooden letters.
The little children learned to read very fast.
Can you see Margery with her basket of letters in this picture?
The first house she came to was Farmer Wilson's.
See, here it is.
Margery stopped and ran up to the door.
Tap, tap, tap.
Who is there?
Is that you, little Goody?
I am glad to see you.
Then out came the little boy.
Do you think you could have done as well as little Billy?
Why do you bark at little Two Shoes?
Come, Alice, here is Goody Two Shoes ready to teach you.
Then out came the little one.
As she formed them she gave their exact sounds.
The next place Margery came to was Gaffer Cook's house.
Here a number of poor children all came around her at once.
He that will thrive must rise by five.
Truth can be blamed, but cannot be shamed.
A friend in your need is a friend indeed.
A wise head makes a close mouth.
A lie stands upon one leg, but truth upon two.
A good boy will make a good man.
Honor your parents and the world will honor you.
Love your friends and your friends will love you.
This lamb she called Will, and a pretty fellow he was.
Do look at him.
See him run and play with the children.
Margery also had a present of a little dog.
His name was Jumper.
Look at him sitting up and begging in the picture.
Did you ever see a dog with such bright eyes?
He almost seems able to talk.
Jumper, Jumper, Jumper!
His place was just outside the door.
See how he sits, the saucy fellow!
One day Jumper came whining into the schoolroom.
He took hold of Margery's dress and pulled and pulled.
What do you wish, dear Jumper?
But the dog only whined and pulled her toward the door.
At last Margery went outdoors to see what was the matter.
Then Jumper left her and ran back into the schoolroom.
At length she too followed Jumper to the door.
They were none too soon.
Margery did not lose her school.
And what do you think!
He had become the captain of a great ship.
Do you think she deserved to be very happy?
She did not forget the children, you may be sure.
When he knew he was in the right, he feared nothing.
David's quiet life did not last long.
Find out how your brothers are, and bring word to me.
The camp of Israel was on the side of a high mountain.
David looked across the valley to the camp of the Philistines.
There he saw a huge soldier dressed in shining armor.
This giant soldier carried a great spear and shield.
Who is that man?
Do you not know?
Does no one of our soldiers dare to meet him?
Is not God on the side of our people?
I will fight with this man, even though he kill me.
You are only a boy, while he has fought in many battles.
He will help me fight this man.
So he threw it off.
Do you dare fight with me?
This day will he give you into my hand.
He whirled the sling swiftly about his head.
The stone flew straight to its mark.
It struck the Philistine full in the forehead.
In the following words a blend of two consonants follows the vowel.
In the following words a blend of two consonants precedes the vowel.
The vowel must be sounded with the preceding consonants.
This table combines the features of the two previous tables.
These combinations occur so frequently that much drill is required.
Two vowels together are often sounded separately.
The following list contains words with the most common suffixes.
The following list contains words with the most common prefixes.
In those days a king did not have a very easy life.
Every man had to save himself in the best way he could.
King Alfred fled alone, in great haste, through the woods and swamps.
She had no thought that he was the king.
How was he going to get his army together again?
His mind was busy making plans for tomorrow.
In a little while the wom-an came back.
The cakes were smoking on the hearth.
They were burned to a crisp.
Ah, how angry she was!
You lazy fellow!
See what you have done!
The servant did as he was bidden.
He looked and wondered, but was not afraid.
Who are you?
Be strong and joyful of heart, and listen to what I say.
Then the light went out, and the man was seen no more.
They were praising him, as they were in the habit of doing.
Am I the greatest man in the world?
O king!
Do all things obey me?
There is nothing that dares to disobey you, O king!
The world bows before you, and gives you honor.
Will the sea obey me?
Command it, O king!
Waves, stop your rolling, and do not dare to touch my feet!
But the tide came in, just as it always did.
The water rose higher and higher.
The first who came into the room was Robert.
He was a tall, willful lad, and was nick-named Short Stocking.
I would rather be an eagle, because it is strong and brave.
He will lead a wicked life, and will die a shameful death.
The youngest son, Henry, will be wise and prudent and peaceful.
There was music and dancing, and everybody was merry and glad.
But what of that?
A moment after-ward there was a great crash.
The ship had struck upon a rock.
The water rushed in.
She was sinking.
Every heart was full of fear.
No one knew what to do.
Would they be saved?
Row back!
It is my little sister.
She must be saved!
The men did not dare to disobey.
The boat was again brought along-side of the sinking vessel.
The prince stood up, and held out his arms for his sister.
He was the only person left alive to tell the sad story.
His heart was broken.
He never smiled again.
There was once a king of England whose name was John.
He was the worst king that England ever had.
So he sent for the old man to come and see him.
How now, my good abbot?
I hear that you keep a far better house than I.
How dare you do such a thing?
And I tell you that no man shall.
Think ill of you?
How can I help but think ill of you?
Oh, do not say so!
Not another word!
I will try to answer them, O king!
The abbot went away very sad and in great fear.
He first rode to Oxford.
For now he had not a week to live.
Welcome home, good master!
What news do you bring us from great King John?
I think I can help you out of your trouble.
You help me!
I will die for myself.
So the shepherd got ready to go at once.
He dressed himself with great care.
Of course the king did not know him.
Welcome, Sir Abbot!
It is a good thing that you have come back.
I am ready to answer them, O king!
Indeed, indeed!
Well, then, answer my first question: How long shall I live?
Come, you must tell me to the very day.
The king laughed.
And now tell me how soon I may ride round the world.
The king laughed again.
And now comes my third and last question: What do I think?
You think that I am the Abbot of Canterbury.
And with that, he threw off his long gown.
The king laughed loud and long.
Long after he was dead, men liked to talk about his deeds.
Some praised him, and some blamed him.
The next day Robin stood in the same place.
But he did not seem to be so happy this time.
Ah the sad day!
I say, young man!
Have you any money to spare for my merry men and me?
A gold ring?
Here it is.
Ah, I see!
We were going to be married yesterday.
And now my heart is broken.
What is your name?
How many miles is it to the place where the maiden lives?
Come in, and play for us.
Just then an old man came in.
By his side walked a fair young girl.
Her cheeks were very pale, and her eyes were full of tears.
Let the bride choose for herself.
Then he put his horn to his lips, and blew three times.
Now whom do you choose?
Battle after battle had been fought.
He watched her as she toiled slowly and with great care.
Poor thing!
But the spider did not lose hope with the sixth failure.
Would she fail again?
The thread was carried safely to the beam, and fas-tened there.
I, too, will try a seventh time!
He arose and called his men together.
Soon there was an army of brave Scotch-men around him.
By and by the fear of him spread all through the land.
Pooh, pooh!
Those are nothing to frighten us.
They are the farmer's cattle, trying to find their way home.
But the dark objects were not cattle.
Some of them were dragging ladders behind them through the grass.
They would soon be climbing to the top of the wall.
She looked around, and there stood the Black Douglas himself.
Soon there was hot fighting in every part of the castle.
One day two men of Go-tham met on a bridge.
Buy sheep?
And which way will you bring them home?
Take care!
Look out that my sheep don't jump on the bridge.
Will you?
Ah, you foolish fellows!
It is strange that you will never learn wisdom.
There is none at all!
This did not please the men of Gotham at all.
What should they do?
They met together to talk the matter over.
Who chopped those trees down in my way?
Every-body was in great fright.
True, true!
But what shall we do?
Good, good!
We will all act like fools.
Just before they reached the town, they saw a queer sight.
The sheriff stopped his horses, and asked what they were doing.
You foolish fellow!
Don't you know that the sun will rise without any help?
Well, I never thought of that.
How wise you are!
Well, that is the way the world goes every-where.
And he rode on toward the town.
What are you doing?
You foolish fellows!
We never thought of that.
How very wise you are!
But why do you carry that door?
I left my money at home.
Then why didn't you leave the door at home too?
Ah, would it, though?
Now, I never thought of that.
You are the wisest man that I ever saw.
It would be a shame to harm such simple people.
At last the king heard about him.
Perhaps he can tell me how to be happy.
I envy no-body--no, not I!
You're wrong as wrong can be.
The miller smiled, and bowed to the king.
Why should I not be happy?
Stay where you are, and be happy still.
But I envy you.
Your dusty cap is worth more than my golden crown.
Good-by, my friend!
A cruel battle was being fought.
The ground was covered with dead and dying men.
The air was hot and stifling.
When the battle was over, his friends hurried to his aid.
A soldier came running with a cup in his hand.
I will raise your head so that you can drink.
The cup was placed to Sir Philip's lips.
Thy need is greater than mine.
What a brave, noble man he was!
He was about to take a drink from a flask.
O sir!
It was a wounded Swede who spoke.
He was lying on the ground only a little way off.
The Dane went to him at once.
Ah, you rascal!
Now I will punish you.
Then at night the air grew very cold.
A breeze sprang up from the east.
Great white ice-bergs came drifting around them.
Be brave, my friends!
We are as near heaven on the sea as on the land.
Night came again.
It was a stormy night, with mist and rain.
I will tell you about it.
He could not step across.
Perhaps he could jump over it.
She saw the dirty puddle in the street.
How was she to get across?
Young Raleigh, when he saw who was coming, forgot about himself.
He thought only of helping the queen.
He took off his scarlet cloak, and spread it across the puddle.
The queen could step on it now, as on a beautiful carpet.
She walked across.
She paused a moment, and thanked the young man.
The young man went, but he had no scarlet cloak to wear.
One was the potato, the other was tobacco.
He ran out for some water.
He found a pail that was quite full.
He hurried back, and threw the water into Sir Walter's face.
Of course the fire was all put out.
After that a great many men learned to smoke.
And now tobacco is used in all countries of the world.
There was once a very brave man whose name was John Smith.
Then two tall Indians with big clubs in their hands came forward.
The king and all his great men stood around to see.
The Indians raised their clubs.
In another moment they would fall on Smith's head.
But just then a little Indian girl rushed in.
She clasped Smith's head with her arms.
She laid her own head upon his.
O father!
The king at first did not know what to do.
Soon after that, his father came home.
Who has been cutting my fine young cherry tree?
He was very angry when he came into the house.
I will tell you the truth about it.
I chopped the tree down with my hatchet.
His father forgot his anger.
It was a dark September morning.
There was a storm at sea.
Could any one save the poor, half-drowned men who were there?
She could see the men clinging to the masts.
We must try to save them!
Let us go out in the boat at once!
We cannot reach them.
We must at least try to save them.
In a few minutes they were ready.
They set off in the heavy lighthouse boat.
Then one by one the worn-out crew were helped on board.
Then her father clam-bered back into his place.
He would not bow down to Gessler himself.
When Gessler heard of this, he was very angry.
So he made up his mind to punish the bold man.
What if the boy should move?
What if the bow-man's hand should tremble?
What if the arrow should not carry true?
Will you make me kill my boy?
You must hit the apple with your one arrow.
Then, without another word, Tell fitted the arrow to his bow.
He took aim, and let it fly.
The boy stood firm and still.
The arrow whistled through the air.
It struck the apple fairly in the center, and carried it away.
The people who saw it shouted with joy.
A great army was marching into Switzerland.
The men of Switzerland knew all this.
They knew that they must fight for their homes and their lives.
But their foes kept in line as they marched along the road.
Every soldier was fully armed.
What could the poor country people do against such foes as these?
Others tried clubs and stones, but with no better luck.
The lines were still unbroken.
What cared they for sticks and stones and hunts-men's arrows?
There my wife and chil-dren wait for my return.
With these words he ran forward.
Follow me!
Make way for liberty!
A hundred spears were turned to catch him upon their points.
The soldiers forgot to stay in their places.
The lines were broken.
Arnold's friends rushed bravely after him.
They fought with whatever they had in hand.
They snatched spears and shields from their foes.
They had no thought of fear.
They only thought of their homes and their dear native land.
And they won at last.
Such a battle no one ever knew before.
The smallest child could ring the bell by pulling upon this rope.
How we should like to hear it ring!
Then the king came down the street.
But he did not ring the bell.
He did not even take the rope in his hands.
Many years passed by after this.
Many wrongs were righted, many ill-doers were punished.
At last the hempen rope was almost worn out.
What if a child should be wronged?
It could not ring the bell to let us know it.
But there was not a rope to be found in all Atri.
What if some great wrong should be done before it came?
Let it be as it is.
What is the use of keeping that lazy steed?
I cannot even give him away.
If he starves to death, so much the better.
What a fine dinner they would be for a starving horse!
It was hard to break it from the vine.
All the people in Atri heard it.
Some one has done me wrong!
For I've been wronged!
The judges heard it.
And he shall have justice!
When they saw the horse, all stood still in wonder.
He has saved you from many a peril.
He has helped you gain your wealth.
Is it possible to cross the Alps?
Forward to Italy!
Soon they were safe over the Alps.
In four days they were marching on the plains of Italy.
Go and tell Cincinnatus.
He will help you.
Why did they ride thus?
Then they leaped from their horses, and told their story.
We had been caught in a trap.
And now, O Roman Fathers!
Whom can we send but the guards and the boys?
He will help us.
He stopped and greeted them kindly, and waited for them to speak.
Then Cincinnatus wondered what they could mean.
Is all well with Rome?
Then the men told their errand.
They told him about the great danger the city was in.
A few days afterward there was great joy in Rome.
There was good news from Cincinnatus.
The men of the mountains had been beaten with great loss.
They had been driven back into their own place.
He had saved Rome.
He had been the ruler of Rome for sixteen days.
When he came to Rome, all the people greeted him gladly.
They asked him about the war.
But it will not be wise to make peace.
The people of Carthage are afraid, and well they may be.
Then the Fathers tried to persuade him to stay.
Shall a Roman not keep his word?
I am ill, and at the best have not long to live.
I will go back, as I promised.
The rest will be taken care of.
Did you ever see so handsome a lady as our mother's friend?
She looks like a queen.
It is our mother who is like a queen.
She was simply dressed in a plain white robe.
The brothers looked shyly at their mother's friend.
The lady opened it.
Ah, how those jewels dazzled the eyes of the wondering boys!
The brothers looked long at the gems.
Is it true, Cornelia, that you have no jewels?
They are worth more than all your gems.
And the world still likes to hear the story of Cornelia's jewels.
After a while a great noise woke him up.
A lion had come into the cave, and was roaring loudly.
I know that you will help me.
The lion was full of joy.
They knew who he was, and so took him back to Rome.
When the day came, thousands of people crowded to see the sport.
The door opened, and poor Androclus was brought in.
Then the hungry lion rushed in.
With a single bound he reached the poor slave.
Androclus gave a great cry, not of fear, but of gladness.
It was his old friend, the lion of the cave.
They could not understand what it all meant.
After a while they asked Androclus to tell them about it.
Live and be free!
Give both of them their liberty!
And they lived together in Rome for many years.
The city had never been in so great danger.
Hew down the bridge with all the speed that you can!
On the bridge the Romans hewed away at the beams and posts.
Come back!
But just then Porsena's horsemen dashed toward them again.
Run for your lives!
I will keep the road.
They turned, and ran back across the bridge.
When Horatius heard the sound, he knew that the city was safe.
He leaped into the deep, swift stream.
But he was a strong man, and the best swimmer in Rome.
The next minute he rose.
Shout after shout greeted him as he climbed upon the bank.
He was the greatest of all the Romans.
Why was he so great?
He was wise in planning and in doing.
He knew how to make men both love and fear him.
At last he made himself the ruler of Rome.
Some said that he wished to become its king.
But the Romans at that time did not believe in kings.
These simple people stood by the roadside and watched Caesar pass.
Some of the fine officers who were with Caesar laughed.
Before he was halfway to the farther shore, a storm overtook him.
It seemed every minute as though the boat would sink.
The captain was in great fright.
But Caesar was not afraid.
He bade the man get up and take his oars again.
Why should you be afraid?
The boat will not be lost; for you have Caesar on board.
There was once a king whose name was Dionys'i-us.
How happy you must be!
You have here everything that any man could wish.
No, not that, O king!
You shall have them.
Nothing was wanting that could give him pleasure.
Then he chanced to raise his eyes toward the ceiling.
What if the hair should break?
There was danger every moment that it would do so.
The smile faded from the lips of Damocles.
His face became ashy pale.
His hands trembled.
What is the matter?
That sword!
He was so badly frightened that he dared not move.
But why should that trouble you?
I have a sword over my head all the time.
The tyrant laughed at him.
How can I know that you will keep your promise?
You only want to cheat me, and save your-self.
The tyrant was sur-prised that anybody should make such an offer.
But Damon did not try to escape.
He still had faith in the truth and honor of his friend.
It will be because he is hin-dered against his will.
At last the day came, and then the very hour.
Damon was ready to die.
And so he set them both free.
In a few days, an answer was brought back to him.
When he opened the letter, he found only one word written there.
The winds drove the ship upon the rocks, and it was wrecked.
But he did not mean to keep his promise.
Would the king give it to him?
Who owns the farm now?
Go and take the farm for yourself.
He took the farm for his own.
The poor farmer was stung to the heart by such treat-ment.
One day King Philip bought a fine horse called Bu-ceph'a-lus.
They tried to whip him, but that only made him worse.
At last the king bade his servants take him away.
Those men do not know how to treat him.
And if you fail to do so, what then?
He had noticed that the horse was afraid of his own shadow.
Everybody expected to see the boy killed outright.
He leaped to the ground, and his father ran and kissed him.
You must seek a larger kingdom that will be worthy of you.
After that, Alexander and Bucephalus were the best of friends.
But wise as he was, he had some very queer ways.
Why do you carry a lantern when the sun is shining?
Diogenes, I have heard a great deal about your wisdom.
Is there anything that I can do for you?
All Greece was in danger.
No: we will be free.
And so there was a great stir through-out all the land.
Soon the Persian soldiers were seen coming.
There were so many of them that no man could count them.
And yet Leonidas and his Spartans held their ground.
They had made up their minds to die at their post.
Bravely they stood in the narrow pass.
Bravely they faced their foes.
To Spartans there was no such thing as fear.
But one by one the Spartans fell.
All day long the army of the Persians was kept at bay.
Twenty thousand Persian soldiers had fallen before that handful of men.
And Greece was saved.
Gen'ghis Khan was a great king and war-rior.
Many of his friends were with him.
They rode out gayly, carrying their bows and arrows.
Behind them came the servants with the hounds.
It was a merry hunting party.
The woods rang with their shouts and laughter.
They expected to carry much game home in the evening.
But they did not find as much game as they expected.
Toward evening they started for home.
The day had been warm, and the king was very thirsty.
His pet hawk had left his wrist and flown away.
It would be sure to find its way home.
The king rode slowly along.
If he could only find it now!
He knew that there was a spring farther up.
The king leaped from his horse.
He took a little silver cup from his hunting bag.
He held it so as to catch the slowly falling drops.
At last it was nearly full.
He put the cup to his lips, and was about to drink.
The water was all spilled upon the ground.
The king looked up to see who had done this thing.
It was his pet hawk.
This time he did not wait so long.
When the cup was half full, he lifted it toward his mouth.
And now the king began to grow angry.
The king was now very angry indeed.
How do you dare to act so?
If I had you in my hands, I would wring your neck!
Then he filled the cup again.
But before he tried to drink, he drew his sword.
But the king was looking for this.
At last he reached the place.
The king stopped.
He forgot his thirst.
The hawk saved my life!
He was my best friend, and I have killed him.
He clam-bered down the bank.
Then he mounted his horse and rode swiftly home.
There was once a kind man whose name was Oliver Gold-smith.
He had a gentle heart.
Goldsmith did so.
He found that the family was in great need.
The man had not had work for a long time.
In the evening the woman called.
Goldsmith gave her a little paper box that was very heavy.
But don't open the box until you reach home.
What are the directions for taking it?
It was full of pieces of money.
Goldsmith had given them all the ready money that he had.
There was once a king of Prussia whose name was Frederick William.
Soon his hands were full of pretty blossoms.
Some children were playing there.
He stood still for some time, and watched them as they played.
The children were puz-zled.
It belongs to the vegetable kingdom, sir.
Why so, my lad?
The king was pleased.
He tossed it gayly to the boy.
Catch it if you can!
Now to what kingdom does this belong?
All metals belong to that kingdom.
The gold piece is your prize.
The children were delighted.
The bright boys were puz-zled now.
But they were a little afraid, and all kept still.
I think to the kingdom of heaven.
So be it.
He lived in a beautiful palace in the midst of flowery gardens.
He had every-thing that heart could wish.
He will not send you away hungry.
The Barmecide spoke very kindly, and asked what was wanted.
Is it possible?
Schacabac had not expected to be treated so kindly.
He began to thank the rich man.
Schacabac saw no boy, nor basin, nor water.
And here are sweet sauce, honey, raisins, green peas, and dry figs.
Help yourself, and remember that other good things are coming.
Did you ever eat anything so delicious?
Your table is full of good things.
You cannot please me better.
After this came the des-sert.
Now is there anything else that you would like?
Ah, no!
I have indeed had great plenty.
Boy, bring on the wine!
The Barmecide seized him by the hand.
But come, now we will sup in earnest.
He clapped his hands.
Servants came, and he ordered supper.
Come and live with me, and manage my house.
But the king was always sad when a story was ended.
But this was not all.
He added a very hard condition.
But if he fails, he shall lose his head.
I will listen to you.
The story-teller began his tale.
A month passed; a year passed.
Man, man!
I can listen to it no longer.
Take my daughter; be my heir; rule my kingdom.
But do not let me hear another word about those horrible locusts!
And so the strange story-teller married the king's daughter.
And he lived happily in the land for many years.
The first one happened to put his hand on the elephant's side.
Well, well!
He is exactly like a wall.
The second felt only of the elephant's tusk.
He is not at all like a wall.
He is round and smooth and sharp.
He is more like a spear than anything else.
The third happened to take hold of the elephant's trunk.
Oh, how blind you are!
He is exactly like a huge fan.
At last he seized the animal's tail.
O foolish fellows!
You surely have lost your senses.
People who have eyes sometimes act as foolishly.
The sun shone hot, and he stopped under a tree to rest.
It was very pleasant in the cool shade.
But the king could not keep his mind on his book.
Soon his eyes closed, and he was fast asleep.
It was past noon when he awoke.
He got up from his grassy bed, and looked around.
Then he took his cane in his hand, and started for home.
He felt for it in his pocket.
It was not there.
He had left it under the tree.
But he did not wish to lose the book.
What should he do?
If there was only some one to send for it!
The king went toward the boy.
He held a gold piece in his hand.
The king thought that the boy would be pleased.
But not so.
Who says that you are silly?
You can't catch me.
The boy's eyes spar-kled; but he did not move.
What is the matter now?
Won't you go?
They will stray away, and then I shall be blamed for it.
The boy laughed.
I should like to see you tending them!
Why, they would run away from you in a minute.
At last the boy gave the king his whip, and started off.
Crack the whip!
You don't know how to do anything.
If the geese try to run away, crack it loud.
But the geese missed their master at once.
The king ran after them, but he could not run fast.
He tried to crack the whip, but it was of no use.
The geese were soon far away.
I have found the book, and you have lost the geese.
The king did as he was told.
A king, indeed!
I was very silly to leave the geese with you.
The boy took the gold, and thanked the giver.
So the abbot caused a buoy to be fastened to the rock.
The buoy floated back and forth in the shallow water.
A strong chain kept it from floating away.
God bless the good Abbot of Aberbrothock!
Ralph the Rover was walking on the deck.
He looked out upon the glassy sea.
He saw the buoy floating above the Inchcape Rock.
It looked like a big black speck upon the water.
But the bell was not ringing that day.
There were no waves to set it in motion.
We will play a trick on the old abbot.
The boat was low-ered.
Strong arms soon rowed it to the Inchcape Rock.
He cut the fastenings of the bell.
It fell into the water.
There was a gur-gling sound as it sank out of sight.
Soon a breeze sprang up, and the black ship sailed away.
The wind had blown hard all day.
The waves rolled high.
The ship was moving swiftly.
Ralph the Rover walked the deck.
He could not see where the ship was going.
If the fog would only clear away!
We must be near the shore.
I wish we could hear the good abbot's bell.
The next moment there was a great crash.
It is the Inchcape Rock!
Oh, what a wretch am I!
What was it that he heard as the waves rushed over him?
He sat down in a dark corner, and cried himself to sleep.
He forgot all about the golden pavements, and thought only of food.
I wish I could go to work!
What are you doing there, you little beggar?
Then I guess you will jump.
Fitz-war'ren, came home to dinner.
My lad, what are you doing here?
No, indeed!
I would like to work, if I could find anything to do.
Poor little fellow!
Fitzwarren.
Come in, and I will see what I can do for you.
Look sharp there!
Oh, what a lazy fellow you are!
Some time after that, a ship that belonged to Mr.
Fitzwarren was about to start on a voyage across the sea.
Poor Dick ought to have a chance too.
No, no, my child!
He must risk something of his own.
What are you going to send out on the ship?
Dick heard him, and came into the room.
Who knows but that she will bring you some profit?
After that, the cook was worse than before.
She made fun of him for sending his cat to sea.
He listened.
Turn again, Whittington, Thrice Lord Mayor of London.
The captain did so.
Oh, yes!
The captain jumped for joy.
The cat leaped out upon them, and oh!
The captain was very glad.
One morning Mr.
Fitzwarren was sitting at his desk in his office.
Who's there?
Fitzwarren jumped up quickly, and opened the door.
Whittington by name.
Fitzwarren frowned upon them.
Oh, I am so dirty!
But he was told to make haste.
Please let me go back to my work.
Then he opened the box of jewels, and showed Dick his treasures.
The poor boy did not know what to do.
He begged his master to take a part of it; but Mr.
But he was too kindhearted to keep everything for himself.
Fitz-warren's house.
He even remembered the cross old cook.
Richard Whittington.
He built the famous prison of New-gate in London.
There was a great battle at sea.
One could hear nothing but the roar of the big guns.
The air was filled with black smoke.
Many men had been killed, and many more had been wounded.
The flag-ship had taken fire.
The flames were breaking out from below.
The deck was all ablaze.
They leaped into it, and rowed swiftly away.
There was powder in the hold.
He saw the men leap into the boat.
He heard them call to him to come.
He shook his head.
And now the flames were leaping up the masts.
The sails were all ablaze.
The fire blew hot upon his cheek.
It scorched his hair.
It was before him, behind him, all around him.
The men have all left the ship.
Is it not time that we too should leave it?
He listened to hear his answer.
Speak louder, father!
I cannot hear what you say.
I am here, father!
Speak once again!
But what is that?
Oh, what a terrific sound!
Louder than thunder, louder than the roar of all the guns!
The air quivers; the sea itself trembles; the sky is black.
The blazing ship is seen no more.
There was powder in the hold!
A long time ago a lady, whose name was Mrs.
I doubt not but that some day you too will read it.
But he liked to go with his grandfather to the stone-yard.
He showed so much skill that his grandfather was delighted.
He was pale, and trembling with fright.
What shall I do?
I cannot make the table look pretty without the statue.
What will the Count say?
And now all the other servants were in trouble.
Was the dinner to be a failure after all?
For everything depended on having the table nicely arranged.
The Count would be very angry.
Ah, what shall we do?
If you had another statue, could you arrange the table?
Will you let me try to make one?
The man laughed.
Non-sense!
How beautiful!
When it was finished, the man carried it to its place.
What a beautiful work of art!
What is your name, and who is your teacher?
By this time all the guests had crowded around Antonio.
He could not read, for there were no books in the prison.
The time dragged slowly by.
There was no work to be done, no one to talk with.
All at once he stopped.
He stooped down to see.
A seed of some kind had fallen between the stones.
This coating is to keep it safe.
I must not harm it.
And he went on with his walk.
He stooped to look at it.
He staid by it a long time, looking at all its parts.
Every morning after that, Charney went at once to his little plant.
He wanted to see how much it had grown.
Charney trembled from head to foot.
O my Picciola!
Do you think that I would hurt your little plant?
He felt half ashamed at having thought the jailer unkind.
Every day it grew larger and more beautiful.
Charney's heart sank within him.
I will see if I can make one.
The plant had a thousand pretty ways which he noticed.
He spent all his time with the plant.
See my lord and my lady!
As the summer passed by, Picciola grew more lovely every day.
There were no fewer than thirty blossoms on its stem.
But one sad morning it began to droop.
Charney did not know what to do.
He gave it water, but still it drooped.
The leaves were withering.
The stones of the prison yard would not let the plant live.
Charney knew that there was but one way to save his treasure.
The stones must be taken up at once.
But this was a thing which the jailer dared not do.
Poor Charney could not sleep.
Picciola must die.
Then a new thought came to Charney.
But for the sake of Picciola he would do it.
He wrote his little story on his handkerchief.
What a long journey that was for the young girl!
What a long, dreary waiting it was for Charney and Picciola!
But at last news came to the prison.
The stones were to be taken up.
Picciola was saved!
And so, at last, Charney was set free.
Of course he was no longer sad and unloving.
The next time he saw her, Wil-helm spoke to her again.
How old are you?
Wilhelm went down to find out what was the matter.
He ran and held the man by the collar.
Let the child alone!
The man tried to get loose; but Wilhelm held him fast.
The child crept away, and hid herself in the crowd.
Where have you been?
She would let no one wait on him but herself.
Mignon grew more lovely every day.
She never walked up and down the stairs, but jumped.
To each one she would speak in a different way.
To Wilhelm it was with her arms crossed upon her breast.
One night he came home very weary and sad.
Mignon was waiting for him.
She carried the light before him up-stairs.
Wilhelm, to please her, told her that she might.
Then she brought a little carpet, and spread it upon the floor.
She arranged the eggs in the form of certain figures.
She tied a band about her eyes, and then the dancing began.
How lightly, quickly, nimbly, wonderfully, she moved!
But not one of them did she touch.
With all kinds of steps she passed among them.
Not one of them was moved from its place.
Wilhelm forgot all his cares.
He watched every motion of the child.
He almost forgot who and where he was.
Not one was left behind, not one was harmed.
She sang to him.
He asked her to speak the words over and over again.
Have you ever been there?
The child did not answer.
