In those days a king did not have a very easy life.
Every man had to save himself in the best way he could.
King Alfred fled alone, in great haste, through the woods and swamps.
She had no thought that he was the king.
How was he going to get his army together again?
His mind was busy making plans for tomorrow.
In a little while the wom-an came back.
The cakes were smoking on the hearth.
They were burned to a crisp.
Ah, how angry she was!
You lazy fellow!
See what you have done!
The servant did as he was bidden.
He looked and wondered, but was not afraid.
Who are you?
Be strong and joyful of heart, and listen to what I say.
Then the light went out, and the man was seen no more.
They were praising him, as they were in the habit of doing.
Am I the greatest man in the world?
O king!
Do all things obey me?
There is nothing that dares to disobey you, O king!
The world bows before you, and gives you honor.
Will the sea obey me?
Command it, O king!
Waves, stop your rolling, and do not dare to touch my feet!
But the tide came in, just as it always did.
The water rose higher and higher.
The first who came into the room was Robert.
He was a tall, willful lad, and was nick-named Short Stocking.
I would rather be an eagle, because it is strong and brave.
He will lead a wicked life, and will die a shameful death.
The youngest son, Henry, will be wise and prudent and peaceful.
There was music and dancing, and everybody was merry and glad.
But what of that?
A moment after-ward there was a great crash.
The ship had struck upon a rock.
The water rushed in.
She was sinking.
Every heart was full of fear.
No one knew what to do.
Would they be saved?
Row back!
It is my little sister.
She must be saved!
The men did not dare to disobey.
The boat was again brought along-side of the sinking vessel.
The prince stood up, and held out his arms for his sister.
He was the only person left alive to tell the sad story.
His heart was broken.
He never smiled again.
There was once a king of England whose name was John.
He was the worst king that England ever had.
So he sent for the old man to come and see him.
How now, my good abbot?
I hear that you keep a far better house than I.
How dare you do such a thing?
And I tell you that no man shall.
Think ill of you?
How can I help but think ill of you?
Oh, do not say so!
Not another word!
I will try to answer them, O king!
The abbot went away very sad and in great fear.
He first rode to Oxford.
For now he had not a week to live.
Welcome home, good master!
What news do you bring us from great King John?
I think I can help you out of your trouble.
You help me!
I will die for myself.
So the shepherd got ready to go at once.
He dressed himself with great care.
Of course the king did not know him.
Welcome, Sir Abbot!
It is a good thing that you have come back.
I am ready to answer them, O king!
Indeed, indeed!
Well, then, answer my first question: How long shall I live?
Come, you must tell me to the very day.
The king laughed.
And now tell me how soon I may ride round the world.
The king laughed again.
And now comes my third and last question: What do I think?
You think that I am the Abbot of Canterbury.
And with that, he threw off his long gown.
The king laughed loud and long.
Long after he was dead, men liked to talk about his deeds.
Some praised him, and some blamed him.
The next day Robin stood in the same place.
But he did not seem to be so happy this time.
Ah the sad day!
I say, young man!
Have you any money to spare for my merry men and me?
A gold ring?
Here it is.
Ah, I see!
We were going to be married yesterday.
And now my heart is broken.
What is your name?
How many miles is it to the place where the maiden lives?
Come in, and play for us.
Just then an old man came in.
By his side walked a fair young girl.
Her cheeks were very pale, and her eyes were full of tears.
Let the bride choose for herself.
Then he put his horn to his lips, and blew three times.
Now whom do you choose?
Battle after battle had been fought.
He watched her as she toiled slowly and with great care.
Poor thing!
But the spider did not lose hope with the sixth failure.
Would she fail again?
The thread was carried safely to the beam, and fas-tened there.
I, too, will try a seventh time!
He arose and called his men together.
Soon there was an army of brave Scotch-men around him.
By and by the fear of him spread all through the land.
Pooh, pooh!
Those are nothing to frighten us.
They are the farmer's cattle, trying to find their way home.
But the dark objects were not cattle.
Some of them were dragging ladders behind them through the grass.
They would soon be climbing to the top of the wall.
She looked around, and there stood the Black Douglas himself.
Soon there was hot fighting in every part of the castle.
One day two men of Go-tham met on a bridge.
Where are you going?
Buy sheep?
And which way will you bring them home?
Take care!
Look out that my sheep don't jump on the bridge.
Will you?
Ah, you foolish fellows!
It is strange that you will never learn wisdom.
There is none at all!
This did not please the men of Gotham at all.
What should they do?
They met together to talk the matter over.
Who chopped those trees down in my way?
Every-body was in great fright.
True, true!
But what shall we do?
Good, good!
We will all act like fools.
Just before they reached the town, they saw a queer sight.
The sheriff stopped his horses, and asked what they were doing.
You foolish fellow!
Don't you know that the sun will rise without any help?
Well, I never thought of that.
How wise you are!
Well, that is the way the world goes every-where.
And he rode on toward the town.
What are you doing?
You foolish fellows!
We never thought of that.
How very wise you are!
But why do you carry that door?
I left my money at home.
Then why didn't you leave the door at home too?
Ah, would it, though?
Now, I never thought of that.
You are the wisest man that I ever saw.
It would be a shame to harm such simple people.
At last the king heard about him.
Perhaps he can tell me how to be happy.
I envy no-body--no, not I!
You're wrong as wrong can be.
The miller smiled, and bowed to the king.
Why should I not be happy?
Stay where you are, and be happy still.
But I envy you.
Your dusty cap is worth more than my golden crown.
Good-by, my friend!
A cruel battle was being fought.
The ground was covered with dead and dying men.
The air was hot and stifling.
When the battle was over, his friends hurried to his aid.
A soldier came running with a cup in his hand.
I will raise your head so that you can drink.
The cup was placed to Sir Philip's lips.
Thy need is greater than mine.
What a brave, noble man he was!
He was about to take a drink from a flask.
O sir!
It was a wounded Swede who spoke.
He was lying on the ground only a little way off.
The Dane went to him at once.
Ah, you rascal!
Now I will punish you.
Then at night the air grew very cold.
A breeze sprang up from the east.
Great white ice-bergs came drifting around them.
Be brave, my friends!
We are as near heaven on the sea as on the land.
Night came again.
It was a stormy night, with mist and rain.
I will tell you about it.
He could not step across.
Perhaps he could jump over it.
She saw the dirty puddle in the street.
How was she to get across?
Young Raleigh, when he saw who was coming, forgot about himself.
He thought only of helping the queen.
He took off his scarlet cloak, and spread it across the puddle.
The queen could step on it now, as on a beautiful carpet.
She walked across.
She paused a moment, and thanked the young man.
The young man went, but he had no scarlet cloak to wear.
One was the potato, the other was tobacco.
He ran out for some water.
He found a pail that was quite full.
He hurried back, and threw the water into Sir Walter's face.
Of course the fire was all put out.
After that a great many men learned to smoke.
And now tobacco is used in all countries of the world.
There was once a very brave man whose name was John Smith.
Then two tall Indians with big clubs in their hands came forward.
The king and all his great men stood around to see.
The Indians raised their clubs.
In another moment they would fall on Smith's head.
But just then a little Indian girl rushed in.
She clasped Smith's head with her arms.
She laid her own head upon his.
O father!
The king at first did not know what to do.
Soon after that, his father came home.
Who has been cutting my fine young cherry tree?
He was very angry when he came into the house.
I will tell you the truth about it.
I chopped the tree down with my hatchet.
His father forgot his anger.
It was a dark September morning.
There was a storm at sea.
Could any one save the poor, half-drowned men who were there?
She could see the men clinging to the masts.
We must try to save them!
Let us go out in the boat at once!
We cannot reach them.
We must at least try to save them.
In a few minutes they were ready.
They set off in the heavy lighthouse boat.
Then one by one the worn-out crew were helped on board.
Then her father clam-bered back into his place.
He would not bow down to Gessler himself.
When Gessler heard of this, he was very angry.
So he made up his mind to punish the bold man.
What if the boy should move?
What if the bow-man's hand should tremble?
What if the arrow should not carry true?
Will you make me kill my boy?
You must hit the apple with your one arrow.
Then, without another word, Tell fitted the arrow to his bow.
He took aim, and let it fly.
The boy stood firm and still.
The arrow whistled through the air.
It struck the apple fairly in the center, and carried it away.
The people who saw it shouted with joy.
A great army was marching into Switzerland.
The men of Switzerland knew all this.
They knew that they must fight for their homes and their lives.
But their foes kept in line as they marched along the road.
Every soldier was fully armed.
What could the poor country people do against such foes as these?
Others tried clubs and stones, but with no better luck.
The lines were still unbroken.
What cared they for sticks and stones and hunts-men's arrows?
There my wife and chil-dren wait for my return.
With these words he ran forward.
Follow me!
Make way for liberty!
A hundred spears were turned to catch him upon their points.
The soldiers forgot to stay in their places.
The lines were broken.
Arnold's friends rushed bravely after him.
They fought with whatever they had in hand.
They snatched spears and shields from their foes.
They had no thought of fear.
They only thought of their homes and their dear native land.
And they won at last.
Such a battle no one ever knew before.
The smallest child could ring the bell by pulling upon this rope.
How we should like to hear it ring!
Then the king came down the street.
But he did not ring the bell.
He did not even take the rope in his hands.
Many years passed by after this.
Many wrongs were righted, many ill-doers were punished.
At last the hempen rope was almost worn out.
What if a child should be wronged?
It could not ring the bell to let us know it.
But there was not a rope to be found in all Atri.
What if some great wrong should be done before it came?
Let it be as it is.
What is the use of keeping that lazy steed?
I cannot even give him away.
If he starves to death, so much the better.
What a fine dinner they would be for a starving horse!
It was hard to break it from the vine.
All the people in Atri heard it.
Some one has done me wrong!
For I've been wronged!
The judges heard it.
And he shall have justice!
When they saw the horse, all stood still in wonder.
He has saved you from many a peril.
He has helped you gain your wealth.
Is it possible to cross the Alps?
Forward to Italy!
Soon they were safe over the Alps.
In four days they were marching on the plains of Italy.
Go and tell Cincinnatus.
He will help you.
Why did they ride thus?
Then they leaped from their horses, and told their story.
We had been caught in a trap.
And now, O Roman Fathers!
What shall we do?
Whom can we send but the guards and the boys?
He will help us.
He stopped and greeted them kindly, and waited for them to speak.
Then Cincinnatus wondered what they could mean.
Is all well with Rome?
Then the men told their errand.
They told him about the great danger the city was in.
A few days afterward there was great joy in Rome.
There was good news from Cincinnatus.
The men of the mountains had been beaten with great loss.
They had been driven back into their own place.
He had saved Rome.
He had been the ruler of Rome for sixteen days.
What is that?
When he came to Rome, all the people greeted him gladly.
They asked him about the war.
But it will not be wise to make peace.
The people of Carthage are afraid, and well they may be.
Then the Fathers tried to persuade him to stay.
Shall a Roman not keep his word?
I am ill, and at the best have not long to live.
I will go back, as I promised.
The rest will be taken care of.
Did you ever see so handsome a lady as our mother's friend?
She looks like a queen.
It is our mother who is like a queen.
She was simply dressed in a plain white robe.
The brothers looked shyly at their mother's friend.
The lady opened it.
Ah, how those jewels dazzled the eyes of the wondering boys!
The brothers looked long at the gems.
Is it true, Cornelia, that you have no jewels?
They are worth more than all your gems.
And the world still likes to hear the story of Cornelia's jewels.
After a while a great noise woke him up.
A lion had come into the cave, and was roaring loudly.
I know that you will help me.
The lion was full of joy.
They knew who he was, and so took him back to Rome.
When the day came, thousands of people crowded to see the sport.
The door opened, and poor Androclus was brought in.
Then the hungry lion rushed in.
With a single bound he reached the poor slave.
Androclus gave a great cry, not of fear, but of gladness.
It was his old friend, the lion of the cave.
They could not understand what it all meant.
After a while they asked Androclus to tell them about it.
Live and be free!
Give both of them their liberty!
And they lived together in Rome for many years.
The city had never been in so great danger.
Hew down the bridge with all the speed that you can!
On the bridge the Romans hewed away at the beams and posts.
Come back!
But just then Porsena's horsemen dashed toward them again.
Run for your lives!
I will keep the road.
They turned, and ran back across the bridge.
When Horatius heard the sound, he knew that the city was safe.
He leaped into the deep, swift stream.
But he was a strong man, and the best swimmer in Rome.
The next minute he rose.
Shout after shout greeted him as he climbed upon the bank.
He was the greatest of all the Romans.
Why was he so great?
He was wise in planning and in doing.
He knew how to make men both love and fear him.
At last he made himself the ruler of Rome.
Some said that he wished to become its king.
But the Romans at that time did not believe in kings.
These simple people stood by the roadside and watched Caesar pass.
Some of the fine officers who were with Caesar laughed.
Before he was halfway to the farther shore, a storm overtook him.
It seemed every minute as though the boat would sink.
The captain was in great fright.
But Caesar was not afraid.
He bade the man get up and take his oars again.
Why should you be afraid?
The boat will not be lost; for you have Caesar on board.
There was once a king whose name was Dionys'i-us.
How happy you must be!
You have here everything that any man could wish.
No, not that, O king!
You shall have them.
Nothing was wanting that could give him pleasure.
Then he chanced to raise his eyes toward the ceiling.
What if the hair should break?
There was danger every moment that it would do so.
The smile faded from the lips of Damocles.
His face became ashy pale.
His hands trembled.
What is the matter?
That sword!
He was so badly frightened that he dared not move.
But why should that trouble you?
I have a sword over my head all the time.
The tyrant laughed at him.
How can I know that you will keep your promise?
You only want to cheat me, and save your-self.
The tyrant was sur-prised that anybody should make such an offer.
But Damon did not try to escape.
He still had faith in the truth and honor of his friend.
It will be because he is hin-dered against his will.
At last the day came, and then the very hour.
Damon was ready to die.
And so he set them both free.
In a few days, an answer was brought back to him.
When he opened the letter, he found only one word written there.
The winds drove the ship upon the rocks, and it was wrecked.
But he did not mean to keep his promise.
Would the king give it to him?
Who owns the farm now?
Go and take the farm for yourself.
He took the farm for his own.
The poor farmer was stung to the heart by such treat-ment.
One day King Philip bought a fine horse called Bu-ceph'a-lus.
They tried to whip him, but that only made him worse.
At last the king bade his servants take him away.
Those men do not know how to treat him.
And if you fail to do so, what then?
He had noticed that the horse was afraid of his own shadow.
Everybody expected to see the boy killed outright.
He leaped to the ground, and his father ran and kissed him.
You must seek a larger kingdom that will be worthy of you.
After that, Alexander and Bucephalus were the best of friends.
But wise as he was, he had some very queer ways.
Why do you carry a lantern when the sun is shining?
Diogenes, I have heard a great deal about your wisdom.
Is there anything that I can do for you?
All Greece was in danger.
No: we will be free.
And so there was a great stir through-out all the land.
Soon the Persian soldiers were seen coming.
There were so many of them that no man could count them.
And yet Leonidas and his Spartans held their ground.
They had made up their minds to die at their post.
Bravely they stood in the narrow pass.
Bravely they faced their foes.
To Spartans there was no such thing as fear.
But one by one the Spartans fell.
All day long the army of the Persians was kept at bay.
Twenty thousand Persian soldiers had fallen before that handful of men.
And Greece was saved.
Gen'ghis Khan was a great king and war-rior.
Many of his friends were with him.
They rode out gayly, carrying their bows and arrows.
Behind them came the servants with the hounds.
It was a merry hunting party.
The woods rang with their shouts and laughter.
They expected to carry much game home in the evening.
But they did not find as much game as they expected.
Toward evening they started for home.
The day had been warm, and the king was very thirsty.
His pet hawk had left his wrist and flown away.
It would be sure to find its way home.
The king rode slowly along.
If he could only find it now!
He knew that there was a spring farther up.
The king leaped from his horse.
He took a little silver cup from his hunting bag.
He held it so as to catch the slowly falling drops.
At last it was nearly full.
He put the cup to his lips, and was about to drink.
The water was all spilled upon the ground.
The king looked up to see who had done this thing.
It was his pet hawk.
This time he did not wait so long.
When the cup was half full, he lifted it toward his mouth.
And now the king began to grow angry.
The king was now very angry indeed.
How do you dare to act so?
If I had you in my hands, I would wring your neck!
Then he filled the cup again.
But before he tried to drink, he drew his sword.
But the king was looking for this.
At last he reached the place.
The king stopped.
He forgot his thirst.
The hawk saved my life!
He was my best friend, and I have killed him.
He clam-bered down the bank.
Then he mounted his horse and rode swiftly home.
There was once a kind man whose name was Oliver Gold-smith.
He had a gentle heart.
Goldsmith did so.
He found that the family was in great need.
The man had not had work for a long time.
In the evening the woman called.
Goldsmith gave her a little paper box that was very heavy.
But don't open the box until you reach home.
What are the directions for taking it?
It was full of pieces of money.
Goldsmith had given them all the ready money that he had.
There was once a king of Prussia whose name was Frederick William.
Soon his hands were full of pretty blossoms.
Some children were playing there.
He stood still for some time, and watched them as they played.
The children were puz-zled.
It belongs to the vegetable kingdom, sir.
Why so, my lad?
The king was pleased.
He tossed it gayly to the boy.
Catch it if you can!
Now to what kingdom does this belong?
All metals belong to that kingdom.
The gold piece is your prize.
The children were delighted.
The bright boys were puz-zled now.
But they were a little afraid, and all kept still.
I think to the kingdom of heaven.
So be it.
He lived in a beautiful palace in the midst of flowery gardens.
He had every-thing that heart could wish.
He will not send you away hungry.
The Barmecide spoke very kindly, and asked what was wanted.
Is it possible?
Schacabac had not expected to be treated so kindly.
He began to thank the rich man.
Schacabac saw no boy, nor basin, nor water.
And here are sweet sauce, honey, raisins, green peas, and dry figs.
Help yourself, and remember that other good things are coming.
Did you ever eat anything so delicious?
Your table is full of good things.
You cannot please me better.
After this came the des-sert.
Now is there anything else that you would like?
Ah, no!
I have indeed had great plenty.
Boy, bring on the wine!
The Barmecide seized him by the hand.
But come, now we will sup in earnest.
He clapped his hands.
Servants came, and he ordered supper.
Come and live with me, and manage my house.
But the king was always sad when a story was ended.
But this was not all.
He added a very hard condition.
But if he fails, he shall lose his head.
I will listen to you.
The story-teller began his tale.
A month passed; a year passed.
Man, man!
I can listen to it no longer.
Take my daughter; be my heir; rule my kingdom.
But do not let me hear another word about those horrible locusts!
And so the strange story-teller married the king's daughter.
And he lived happily in the land for many years.
The first one happened to put his hand on the elephant's side.
Well, well!
He is exactly like a wall.
The second felt only of the elephant's tusk.
He is not at all like a wall.
He is round and smooth and sharp.
He is more like a spear than anything else.
The third happened to take hold of the elephant's trunk.
Oh, how blind you are!
He is exactly like a huge fan.
At last he seized the animal's tail.
O foolish fellows!
You surely have lost your senses.
People who have eyes sometimes act as foolishly.
The sun shone hot, and he stopped under a tree to rest.
It was very pleasant in the cool shade.
But the king could not keep his mind on his book.
Soon his eyes closed, and he was fast asleep.
It was past noon when he awoke.
He got up from his grassy bed, and looked around.
Then he took his cane in his hand, and started for home.
He felt for it in his pocket.
It was not there.
He had left it under the tree.
But he did not wish to lose the book.
What should he do?
If there was only some one to send for it!
The king went toward the boy.
He held a gold piece in his hand.
The king thought that the boy would be pleased.
But not so.
What do you mean?
Who says that you are silly?
You can't catch me.
The boy's eyes spar-kled; but he did not move.
What is the matter now?
Won't you go?
They will stray away, and then I shall be blamed for it.
The boy laughed.
I should like to see you tending them!
Why, they would run away from you in a minute.
At last the boy gave the king his whip, and started off.
Crack the whip!
You don't know how to do anything.
If the geese try to run away, crack it loud.
But the geese missed their master at once.
The king ran after them, but he could not run fast.
He tried to crack the whip, but it was of no use.
The geese were soon far away.
I have found the book, and you have lost the geese.
The king did as he was told.
A king, indeed!
I was very silly to leave the geese with you.
The boy took the gold, and thanked the giver.
So the abbot caused a buoy to be fastened to the rock.
The buoy floated back and forth in the shallow water.
A strong chain kept it from floating away.
God bless the good Abbot of Aberbrothock!
Ralph the Rover was walking on the deck.
He looked out upon the glassy sea.
He saw the buoy floating above the Inchcape Rock.
It looked like a big black speck upon the water.
But the bell was not ringing that day.
There were no waves to set it in motion.
We will play a trick on the old abbot.
The boat was low-ered.
Strong arms soon rowed it to the Inchcape Rock.
He cut the fastenings of the bell.
It fell into the water.
There was a gur-gling sound as it sank out of sight.
Soon a breeze sprang up, and the black ship sailed away.
The wind had blown hard all day.
The waves rolled high.
The ship was moving swiftly.
Ralph the Rover walked the deck.
He could not see where the ship was going.
If the fog would only clear away!
We must be near the shore.
I wish we could hear the good abbot's bell.
The next moment there was a great crash.
It is the Inchcape Rock!
Oh, what a wretch am I!
What was it that he heard as the waves rushed over him?
He sat down in a dark corner, and cried himself to sleep.
He forgot all about the golden pavements, and thought only of food.
I wish I could go to work!
What are you doing there, you little beggar?
Then I guess you will jump.
Fitz-war'ren, came home to dinner.
My lad, what are you doing here?
No, indeed!
I would like to work, if I could find anything to do.
Poor little fellow!
Fitzwarren.
Come in, and I will see what I can do for you.
Look sharp there!
Oh, what a lazy fellow you are!
Some time after that, a ship that belonged to Mr.
Fitzwarren was about to start on a voyage across the sea.
Poor Dick ought to have a chance too.
No, no, my child!
He must risk something of his own.
What are you going to send out on the ship?
Dick heard him, and came into the room.
Who knows but that she will bring you some profit?
After that, the cook was worse than before.
She made fun of him for sending his cat to sea.
He listened.
Turn again, Whittington, Thrice Lord Mayor of London.
The captain did so.
Oh, yes!
The captain jumped for joy.
The cat leaped out upon them, and oh!
The captain was very glad.
One morning Mr.
Fitzwarren was sitting at his desk in his office.
Who's there?
Fitzwarren jumped up quickly, and opened the door.
Whittington by name.
Fitzwarren frowned upon them.
Oh, I am so dirty!
But he was told to make haste.
Please let me go back to my work.
Then he opened the box of jewels, and showed Dick his treasures.
The poor boy did not know what to do.
He begged his master to take a part of it; but Mr.
But he was too kindhearted to keep everything for himself.
Fitz-warren's house.
He even remembered the cross old cook.
Richard Whittington.
He built the famous prison of New-gate in London.
There was a great battle at sea.
One could hear nothing but the roar of the big guns.
The air was filled with black smoke.
Many men had been killed, and many more had been wounded.
The flag-ship had taken fire.
The flames were breaking out from below.
The deck was all ablaze.
They leaped into it, and rowed swiftly away.
There was powder in the hold.
He saw the men leap into the boat.
He heard them call to him to come.
He shook his head.
And now the flames were leaping up the masts.
The sails were all ablaze.
The fire blew hot upon his cheek.
It scorched his hair.
It was before him, behind him, all around him.
The men have all left the ship.
Is it not time that we too should leave it?
He listened to hear his answer.
Speak louder, father!
I cannot hear what you say.
I am here, father!
Speak once again!
But what is that?
Oh, what a terrific sound!
Louder than thunder, louder than the roar of all the guns!
The air quivers; the sea itself trembles; the sky is black.
The blazing ship is seen no more.
There was powder in the hold!
A long time ago a lady, whose name was Mrs.
I doubt not but that some day you too will read it.
But he liked to go with his grandfather to the stone-yard.
He showed so much skill that his grandfather was delighted.
He was pale, and trembling with fright.
What shall I do?
I cannot make the table look pretty without the statue.
What will the Count say?
And now all the other servants were in trouble.
Was the dinner to be a failure after all?
For everything depended on having the table nicely arranged.
The Count would be very angry.
Ah, what shall we do?
If you had another statue, could you arrange the table?
Will you let me try to make one?
The man laughed.
Non-sense!
How beautiful!
When it was finished, the man carried it to its place.
What a beautiful work of art!
What is your name, and who is your teacher?
By this time all the guests had crowded around Antonio.
He could not read, for there were no books in the prison.
The time dragged slowly by.
There was no work to be done, no one to talk with.
All at once he stopped.
He stooped down to see.
A seed of some kind had fallen between the stones.
This coating is to keep it safe.
I must not harm it.
And he went on with his walk.
He stooped to look at it.
He staid by it a long time, looking at all its parts.
Every morning after that, Charney went at once to his little plant.
He wanted to see how much it had grown.
Charney trembled from head to foot.
O my Picciola!
Do you think that I would hurt your little plant?
He felt half ashamed at having thought the jailer unkind.
Every day it grew larger and more beautiful.
Charney's heart sank within him.
I will see if I can make one.
The plant had a thousand pretty ways which he noticed.
He spent all his time with the plant.
See my lord and my lady!
As the summer passed by, Picciola grew more lovely every day.
There were no fewer than thirty blossoms on its stem.
But one sad morning it began to droop.
Charney did not know what to do.
He gave it water, but still it drooped.
The leaves were withering.
The stones of the prison yard would not let the plant live.
Charney knew that there was but one way to save his treasure.
The stones must be taken up at once.
But this was a thing which the jailer dared not do.
Poor Charney could not sleep.
Picciola must die.
Then a new thought came to Charney.
But for the sake of Picciola he would do it.
He wrote his little story on his handkerchief.
What a long journey that was for the young girl!
What a long, dreary waiting it was for Charney and Picciola!
But at last news came to the prison.
The stones were to be taken up.
Picciola was saved!
And so, at last, Charney was set free.
Of course he was no longer sad and unloving.
The next time he saw her, Wil-helm spoke to her again.
How old are you?
Wilhelm went down to find out what was the matter.
He ran and held the man by the collar.
Let the child alone!
The man tried to get loose; but Wilhelm held him fast.
The child crept away, and hid herself in the crowd.
Where have you been?
She would let no one wait on him but herself.
Mignon grew more lovely every day.
She never walked up and down the stairs, but jumped.
To each one she would speak in a different way.
To Wilhelm it was with her arms crossed upon her breast.
One night he came home very weary and sad.
Mignon was waiting for him.
She carried the light before him up-stairs.
Wilhelm, to please her, told her that she might.
Then she brought a little carpet, and spread it upon the floor.
She arranged the eggs in the form of certain figures.
She tied a band about her eyes, and then the dancing began.
How lightly, quickly, nimbly, wonderfully, she moved!
But not one of them did she touch.
With all kinds of steps she passed among them.
Not one of them was moved from its place.
Wilhelm forgot all his cares.
He watched every motion of the child.
He almost forgot who and where he was.
Not one was left behind, not one was harmed.
She sang to him.
He asked her to speak the words over and over again.
Have you ever been there?
The child did not answer.
